Naval Postgraduate School, 1 University Way, Monterey, NY 93943 

http://www.atmos.albany.edu/student/heathera 

CURRICULUM VITAE 
Heather M. Archambault 

Department of Meteorology 

hmarcham@nps.edu 

(860) 575-0873 

 

 

Ph.D. in Atmospheric Science 
University at Albany/SUNY, Albany, NY 
Advisors:  Lance F. Bosart and Daniel Keyser 
Dissertation:  The downstream flow response to recurving tropical cyclones in the 
western North Pacific 

M.S. in Atmospheric Science 
University at Albany/SUNY, Albany, NY 
Advisors:  Lance F. Bosart and Daniel Keyser 
Thesis:  Cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern 
United States 

B.S. in Meteorology 
Minor, Global Business Strategies in the Earth, Energy, and Materials Industries 
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 

 

EDUCATION 
 
Aug 2011  

 
Aug 2005 

 
May 2002 

 
Apr–Jul 2010 

2003–2011 

 

 
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE 
 
Sep 2011–present 

National Research Council Postdoctoral Research Associate 
Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA 
Investigate how diabatic processes associated with the interaction between 
recurving western North Pacific tropical cyclones and the jet stream impact the 
predictability of the downstream flow evolution.   
Advisors: Pat Harr and Rich Moore. 

Advanced Studies Program Graduate Student Visitor 
National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, CO 
Collaborated with Chris Davis on potential vorticity diagnostics of the diabatic 
signature of tropical cyclone–jet stream interaction during extratropical 
transition.  Met with NCAR and visiting scientists and delivered an informal 
seminar to scientists in the Mesoscale and Microscale Meteorology division.   
 
Graduate Research Assistant 
University at Albany/SUNY 
Conducted research on extratropical transition, cold-air outbreaks, planetary-
scale regime transitions, Rossby wave packets, and meso- and synoptic-scale 
aspects of heavy precipitation events.  
 
 
 

 

TEACHING EXPERIENCE 
 
Fall 2008 

 
Spring 2009 

 
2003–2005, Spring 

2002–2004, Fall 

2001–2002 

Instructor, Synoptic Laboratory I 
University at Albany/SUNY 
Taught a senior-level course covering fundamental topics in synoptic–dynamic 
meteorology; assumed responsibility for all aspects of the course. 

Graduate Teaching Assistant, Synoptic Laboratory II 
University at Albany/SUNY 
Collaborated with the instructor in preparing map discussions and writing 
homework assignments, quizzes, and exams, gave stand-in lectures, and held 
office hours for a senior-level course covering advanced topics in synoptic–
dynamic meteorology.    

Graduate Teaching Assistant, Weather Analysis and Forecasting 
University at Albany/SUNY 
Led weekly map discussions, held office hours, and graded assignments, quizzes, 
and exams for a sophomore-level forecasting course. 
 
Graduate Teaching Assistant, Severe and Hazardous Weather Analysis and 
Forecasting 
University at Albany/SUNY 
Supervised biweekly student-led forecast discussions, held office hours, and 
graded assignments, quizzes, and exams for a junior-level forecasting course. 
 
Undergraduate Teaching Assistant, Introductory Meteorology 
Pennsylvania State University 
Performed experiments, prepared and presented lectures, wrote and graded 
quizzes, and assigned course grades for the laboratory section of a general 
education meteorology course. 

 
OTHER PROFESSIONAL POSITIONS 
 
Jun–Aug 2002 

2001–2002 

Intern Meteorologist 
Aquila, Inc., Kansas City, MO 
Constructed climatologies used to price weather derivatives.   
 
Forecast Apprentice 
Weather Communications Group, Pennsylvania State University 
Wrote New York City, Boston, and Washington, D.C. forecasts and prepared 
graphics for the New York Times weather page.  

 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE 
 
Panelist, “Looking back on recent TC field programs: Lessons learned, questions going forward”, 15th 
Cyclone Workshop, Pacific Grove, CA, Mar 2011. 
 
Working group member, “New Research and Field Experiments in Extratropical Transition”, Seventh 
International Workshop on Tropical Cyclones, WMO/WWRP, La Réunion, FR, Nov 2010. 
 
 

 

2 

 

Lead forecaster, “The Pre-Depression Investigation of Cloud-systems in the Tropics” (PREDICT) field 
campaign, National Science Foundation, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, Sep 2010. 
 
Forecaster, “THORPEX Pacific-Asian Regional Campaign” (T-PARC), Naval Postgraduate School, 
Monterey, CA, Aug 2008. 
 
Session chair  15th Cyclone Workshop, Pacific Grove, CA, Mar 2011. 

Reviewer 

14th Cyclone Workshop, Saint-Adele, QC, Sep 2008. 
 
Monthly Weather Review (AMS) 
Journal of Climate (AMS) 
Geophysical Research Letters (AGU) 

 

 
Contributor, Times Union “Weather and Climate Blog” (http://blog.timesunion.com/weather/) 
 
HONORS AND AWARDS 
  
Best Poster Award 
WCRP Open Science Conference, Denver, CO, 2011 
 
Advanced Studies Program Graduate Student Visitor Award 
National Center for Atmospheric Research, 2010. 
 
1st Place, Graduate Student Division and Overall – Cheyenne, WY 
National Collegiate Weather Forecasting Contest, 2002. 
 
Joel N. and Peggy Myers Scholarship for Excellence in Weather Forecasting 
Dept. of Meteorology, Pennsylvania State University, 2002. 
 
Robert O. Cole Award 
Dept. of Meteorology, Pennsylvania State University, 2002. 
 
Dean’s Freshman Scholarship 
College of Earth and Mineral Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, 1998. 
 
PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS AND HONOR SOCIETIES 
 
American Meteorological Society, 2002–present  
 
Chi Epsilon Pi National Honor Society, 2001–present 
 
REFEREED PUBLICATIONS 
 
Archambault, H. M., D. Keyser, and L. F. Bosart, 2010: Relationships between large-scale regime 

 

 

 

transitions and major cool-season precipitation events in the northeastern United States. Mon. Wea. 
Rev., 138, 3454–3473. 

 
Archambault, H. M., L. F. Bosart, D. Keyser, and A. Aiyyer, 2008: Influence of large-scale flow 

regimes on cool-season precipitation in the northeastern United States. Mon. Wea. Rev., 136, 2945–
2963. 

 

3 

 

Evans, C., H. M. Archambault, J. M. Cordeira, T. J. Galarneau, Jr., K. S. Griffin, A. Johnson, W. 

Komaromi, S. Monette, P. Muradyan, B. Murphy, M. Riemer, J. Sears, B. Tang, and S. Thompson, 
2011:  The Pre-Depression Investigation of Cloud-systems in the Tropics (PREDICT) field campaign: 
Perspectives of early career scientists. Bull. Amer. Meteor. Soc. (in press). 

 
Bosart, L. F., J. M. Cordeira, T. J. Galarneau, Jr., B. J. Moore, and H. M. Archambault, 2011: An 
analysis of multiple predecessor rain events ahead of tropical cyclones Ike and Lowell (10–15 
September 2008). Mon. Wea. Rev. (in press). 
 

PUBLICATIONS IN PREPARATION 
 
Metz, N. D., H. M. Archambault, A. F. Srock, T. J. Galarneau, Jr., and L. F. Bosart, 2011: A comparison 

of South American and African preferential pathways for cold surges.  Mon. Wea. Rev. 

 
Bosart, L. F., J. M. Cordeira, and H. M Archambault, 2011: Linked extreme weather events over the 

Americas in October and November 2007, Mon. Wea. Rev. 

 
Archambault, H. M., L. F. Bosart, and D. Keyser, 2011: A climatological analysis of the downstream 

flow response to recurving tropical cyclones in the western North Pacific. Mon. Wea. Rev. 

 
Archambault, H. M., D. Keyser, and L. F. Bosart, 2012: A compositing study of the downstream flow 

response to recurving tropical cyclones in the western North Pacific. Mon. Wea. Rev. 
 

OTHER PUBLICATIONS 
 
Archambault, H. M., 2010: Large-scale flow reconfigurations over North America associated with 

recurving western North Pacific tropical cyclones.  Extended abstracts, 29th Conference on 
Hurricanes and Tropical Meteorology, Tucson, AZ, Amer. Meteor. Soc., 1D.2. 

 
Jones, S. C., H. M. Archambault, J. Beven, L. F. Bosart, J. Callaghan, J. Cordeira, J. Evans, P. Harr, D. 
Keyser, N. Kitabatake, R. McTaggart-Cowan, R. Torn, and C. Velden, 2010: New research and field 
experiments in extratropical transition. Seventh International Workshop on Tropical Cyclones. La 
Réunion, FR, WMO/WWRP (Available online at 
http://www.cawcr.gov.au/projects/iwtc/documentation/2_4.pdf). 
 

Archambault, H. M., D. Keyser and L. F. Bosart, 2009: The extratropical flow response to recurving 
western North Pacific tropical cyclones. NOAA NWS Science and Technology Infusion Climate 
Bulletin, Dec 2009. (Available online at 
http://www.nws.noaa.gov/ost/climate/STIP/34CDPW/Digest_dec09_p0.htm) 
 

Archambault, H. M., 2005:  Cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the 

northeastern United States. M.S. thesis, Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University at 
Albany, State University of New York, 163 pp. 
 

Archambault, H. M., D. Keyser, L. F. Bosart, and A. Aiyyer, 2004:  Cool-season regime transition and 

its impact on precipitation in the northeastern United States. Extended abstracts, 1st THORPEX 
International Science Symposium, December 2004, Montreal, QC. 

  
Archambault, H. M., L. F. Bosart, D. Keyser, and R. H. Grumm, 2004:  Large-scale regime transition 
and its relationship to significant cool-season precipitation events in the Northeast. Preprints, 20th 
Conference on Weather Analysis and Forecasting, January 2004, Seattle, WA, CD-ROM, paper P1.8. 

 

4 

INVITED PRESENTATIONS 
  
Jul 2006 

 

OTHER SELECTED PRESENTATIONS 
 
Oct 2011 

 

SEMINARS 
 
Apr 2011 

 
Jun 2010 

 
Sep 2006 

 
Apr 2005 

 
Nov 2005 

 
May 2011 

 
Mar 2011 

 
Jan 2011 

 
Nov 2010 

 
May 2010 

 

 

Recurving western North Pacific tropical cyclones as precursors to flow reconfigurations 
and extreme weather events over North America. University of Oklahoma School of 
Meteorology, Norman, OK.   

Large-scale flow reconfigurations over North America associated with recurving western 
North Pacific tropical cyclones. NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory/Physical 
Sciences Division, Boulder, CO. 

Cool-season regime transition and its impact on Northeast precipitation. NCEP 
Climate Prediction Center, Camp Springs, MD. 

Cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern United 
States. University at Albany/SUNY, Albany, NY. 
 

Cool-season regime transition and its impact on Northeast precipitation. Second Annual 
Eastern United States Weather Conference, Baltimore, MD. 

Cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern 
United States. 6th Southern New England Weather Conference, Brookline, MA. 

Recurving tropical cyclone-jet stream interactions over the Western North Pacific and 
their influence on the midlatitude circulation.  WCRP Open Science Conference (poster).  
Denver, CO.   

Recurving TC–jet stream interactions.  Part 1: A climatology and composite analysis. 
Fifth Tropical Workshop, Dedham, MA. 

Reduced predictability and extreme weather events over North America following the 
recurvature of western North Pacific tropical cyclones. 15th Cyclone Workshop, Pacific 
Grove, CA.  

The observed extratropical flow response to recurving western North Pacific tropical 
cyclones. 23rd Conference on Climate Variability and Change/91st American 
Meteorological Society Annual Meeting, Seattle, WA. 

High-impact weather and reduced predictability over the United States associated with 
the recurvature of western North Pacific TC Malakas (2010). 12th Annual Northeast 
Regional Operational Workshop (NROW), Albany, NY. 

Large-scale flow reconfigurations over North America associated with recurving 
western North Pacific tropical cyclones. 29th Conference on Hurricanes and 
Tropical Meteorology, Tucson, AZ. 

5 

 

May 2010 
 

 

 
Oct 2009 

Jul 2009 

Jun 2009 

 
Sep 2008 

 
Sep 2008 

 
Apr 2008 

 
Nov 2007 

 
Jun 2007 

Mar 2007 

 
Oct 2006 

 
Mar 2006 

Large-scale flow reconfigurations over North America associated with recurving   
western North Pacific tropical cyclones. 2nd Winter T-PARC Workshop, Boulder, 
CO. 

The extratropical flow response to recurving western North Pacific tropical cyclones. 
34th NOAA Annual Climate Diagnostics and Prediction Workshop, 
Monterey, CA. 
 
Predictability associated with interactions between recurving West Pacific TCs 
and the extratropical large-scale flow. IAMAS–IAPSO–IACS Joint Assembly, Montreal, 
QC. 
 
Predictability associated with interactions between recurving West Pacific TCs and the 
extratropical large-scale flow. 24th Conference on Weather Analysis and Forecasting, 
Omaha, NE. 

Relationships between large-scale regime transitions and major cool-season precipitation 
events in the Northeast U.S.  14th Cyclone Workshop, Saint-Adele, QC.  

Predictability associated with interactions between recurving West Pacific TCs and the 
extratropical large-scale flow. 14th Cyclone Workshop, Saint-Adele, QC.  

Predictability associated with interactions between recurving West Pacific TCs and the 
extratropical large-scale flow. 28th Conference on Hurricanes and Tropical Meteorology, 
Orlando, FL.    

Recurving typhoons as precursors to an early season Arctic outbreak over the continental 
U.S. 9th Annual NROW, Albany, NY. 

Interactions between recurving West Pacific tropical cyclones and the extratropical large-
scale flow. 23rd Conference on Weather Analysis and Forecasting, Park City, UT. 
  
Predictability of the January 22–24 2005 Northeast blizzard. 32nd Annual Northeastern 
Storm Conference (NESC), Springfield, MA. 

Impacts of recurving West Pacific tropical cyclones on extratropical predictability in the 
Northern Hemisphere. 13th Cyclone Workshop, Pacific Grove, CA.  

Cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern United 
States. 31st Annual NESC, Saratoga Springs, NY. 
 

 

6 

