MEGAN LAWRENCE 

 

Strategy Department | Harvard Business School 

Wyss House | Soldiers Field Road | Boston, MA 02163 

mblawrence@hbs.edu | http://scholar.harvard.edu/mlawrence |404.275.5400 

 

 
EDUCATION  
 
HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL, Boston, MA 
Doctor of Business Administration, Strategy 
Committee: Felix Oberholzer-Gee (chair), Jan Rivkin, Juan Alcacer, Victor Bennett 
 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, Princeton, NJ 
Bachelor of Science in Engineering degree, cum laude, in Operations Research and Financial Engineering 
Senior  Thesis:  “Discipling  the  World  from  Home:  A  Relative  Efficiency  Analysis  of  International  Student 
Ministry in United States Universities” 
 
ARTICLES UNDER REVIEW 
 
Bennett,  Victor,  Megan  Lawrence  &  Raffaella  Sadun.  (2015).  “Are  Founder  CEOs  Good  Managers?”  In 
Measuring  Entrepreneurial  Businesses:  Current  Knowledge  and  Challenges,  edited  by  John  Haltiwanger. 
National Bureau of Economic Research, forthcoming in 2015. 

(expected) May 2016 

May 2006 

Abstract: We investigate the management practices adopted by firms where the founders are also the 
CEOs  using  data  from  the  World  Management  Survey.    We  find  that  founder  CEO  firms  have  the 
lowest management scores of any owner-manager pair type and that this difference is associated with 
significant  performance  differentials.    We  propose  three  possible  reasons  for  the  managerial  gap  of 
founder CEO firms: a) informational problems preventing a clear understanding of the weakness of 
their firms’ managerial practices; b) institutional factors dampening the incentive to adopt managerial 
practices; and c) non-pecuniary returns to potentially inefficient but power-preserving practices.  The 
findings presented in the paper provide support for a) and c), while we do not find evidence that the 
management  practices  of  founder  CEO  firms  vary  with  respect  to  the  characteristics  of  the 
institutional environments in which they are embedded. 

 
WORKING PAPERS 
 
Lawrence, Megan. (2015). “Taking Stock of the Ability to Change: Prior Experience, Competency Traps, and 
Learning-by-Doing”. (Job Market Paper) 
  Winner of Strategic Management Society (SMS) Best Conference PhD Paper Prize. 2015. 

Abstract: In aiming to understand why firms differ in their ability to adapt to new contexts, I explore 
the extent to which prior experience with a previous practice impacts the ability to properly execute a 
new  organizational  practice.    I  generate  predictions  by  integrating  the  traditional  organizational 
learning and path dependency literatures.  To test my hypotheses, I use internal data from 294 stores 
of a large retail chain that implemented a new restocking process in its stores. Initial findings show 
that,  on  average,  stores  dramatically  improve  execution  performance  over  time,  and  worker 
experience  with  the  prior  practice  matters  a  great  deal.    Stores  where  employees  have  greater 
exposure, either directly or indirectly, to the old organizational practice perform significantly worse 
than  other  stores  at  the  outset  –  consistent  with  the  notion  of  ‘competency  traps’.    However,  these 
stores  also  learn  more  quickly,  which  I  show  may  be  a  result  of  increased  efficiency  in  their 
communications  when  learning  the  new  process.    These  findings  suggest  that  scholars  in 

organizational  learning  should  take  attributes  of  an  organization’s  experience  history  into  account 
when assessing variations in new practice performance and learning. 

Lawrence,  Megan,  Felix  Oberholzer-Gee  &  Victor  Canalog.  (2015).  “Bidding  for  Business:  Tax 
Discrimination as Local Industrial Policy”. 

  Abstract: Local and state governments routinely compete for economic activity by offering firms tax 
breaks and subsidies.  While we have empirical evidence to show that large industrial plants produce 
significant local benefits, we know little about the type of firm that local governments most seek to 
attract.    To  further  our  understanding  of  local  tax  discrimination,  we  conduct  a  randomized  field 
experiment across 312 communities in the United States.  We observe how each of the governments 
in  our  sample  adjusts  its  property  tax  in  response  to  variation  in  firm  characteristics  and  local 
economic conditions.  We find that our towns pursue a systematic local industrial policy whose goal 
is to attract manufacturing jobs and work for unskilled labor.  Surprisingly, we find no evidence that 
towns seek to generate rents targeted at the current local population.  Local tax policy also appears to 
disregard agglomeration effects and concerns over industrial diversification. 

RESEARCH IN PROGRESS 
 
Lawrence, Megan. “Who learns from whom: Hierarchy and Local Learning”.  

Bennett, Victor & Megan Lawrence. “Measuring Managerial Practices”. 

Lawrence,  Megan.  “Is  Early  Adopter  a  Type?  Examining  Adoption  Patterns  among  Investment 

Advisors”.  

TEACHING  
 
Analytics Course for MBAs, Harvard Business School 
Finance Teaching Assistant for weeklong preparatory course for entering MBA students 
 
Fall 2012-Spring 2013 
Economics 10: Principles of Economics, Harvard University 
Teaching Fellow for foundational macro- and micro-economics course, responsible for preparing and teaching 

Summer 2012/13/14 

materials for three lectures per week for entire school-year, ~ 26 students 

 
Fall 2011 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Harvard University  
Teaching  Fellow  for  Prof.  Mihir  Desai  and  Prof.  Joseph  Lassiter,  responsible  for  assisting  with  material 

comprehension and grading for 93 students 

 
INVITED PRESENTATIONS 
 
Doctoral Consortia 
Academy of Management BPS Division, Dissertation Consortium 
Atlanta Competitive Advantage Conference (ACAC), Research Development Workshop 
Academy of Management BPS Division, Doctoral Consortium 
Mack Institute Emerging Scholars Workshop, Wharton 
Strategic Management Society, Doctoral Consortium 
 
Paper Conferences 
Re-Learning to Restock: The Impact of Prior Experience on Learning-by-Doing 
 
 
 
 

Strategic Management Conference, Denver, CO 
Academy of Management Annual Conference, Vancouver, Canada 
26th Annual Production and Operations Management Conference, Washington DC 
Consortium on Competitiveness and Cooperation (CCC), New York, NY 

Updated Oct. 2015 
 

 

 August 2015 
May 2015 
 August 2014 
 June 2014 
 September 2013 

October 2015 
August 2015 
May 2015 
April 2015 

Lawrence - 2 

 

NBER Law and Economics Winter Conference, Cambridge, MA 
Trans-Atlantic Doctoral Conference, London Business School, London, UK 
HBS Strategy Doctoral Workshop, Boston, MA 

 
Bidding for Business: Tax Discrimination as Local Industrial Policy 
 
 
 
 
Are Founder CEOs Good Managers? 
 
 
EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE 
 
Winter 2014 / 2015 
Managing Health Care Delivery, Harvard Business School 
On-call  teaching  assistant  for  finance  and  accounting  portions  of  executive  training  that  occurred  during 
interim  module  of  the  program  between  the  concentrated  modules  on  healthcare  process  and  practice 
management 

February 2015 
May 2014 
April 2014 

NBER/CRIW Conference on Entrepreneurship, Washington DC 

 December 2014 

 
Leading Change and Organizational Renewal, Harvard Business School  March 2012 / 2013, June 2012 
Facilitator  for  course  designed  to  teach  executives  tools  for  leading  their  organizations  through  innovation, 

change and renewal opportunities 

 
PROFESSIONAL LEADERSHIP AND SERVICE  
 
Invited Presentations 
A View of Academic Strategy Research, HBS PRIMO Program. Invited Speaker.  
Doctoral Research at HBS, HBS MBA Section J Lunch ‘n Learn. Invited Speaker.  
Industry vs Academia, National Collegiate Research Conference. Invited Panelist.  
Aspire Academy (selective program for Romanian business students), Romania. Invited Faculty. 
What is Strategy, Harvard Graduate Consulting Club.  Invited Speaker.  
The Future of Analytics in Electronic Trading, Bloomberg LP.  Invited Panelist.  
 
Reviewing Activities  
Atlanta Competitive Advantage Conference, Research Development Workshop 
Trans-Atlantic Doctoral Conference, Discussant.  
Ad Hoc Reviewer for Academy of Management Review Annual Meeting 
 
Membership in Professional Associations  
Academy of Management  
Strategic Management Society 
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  
 
ARCELIK, A.S., ISTANBUL, TURKEY 
Consultant, Harvard Business School Immersion Experience Program 
Worked with a team of Harvard Business School MBAs on a market entry strategy.   

July 2015 
April 2015 
January 2014 
July 2012 
August 2011 
May 2010 

May 2015 
May 2014 

Fall 2010-January 2011 

  Performed macro, industry, and competitive analyses of the white goods markets in Europe, Asia, and 

Africa 

  Created and presented a proposal to senior management for a targeted market entry strategy.  Crafted 

marketing campaign and specified product suite for first and second phase of expansion 

 

MERRILL LYNCH, NEW YORK, NY 
Electronic Trading Analyst / Associate 
Headed Quantitative Consulting for Equity Electronic Trading with direct oversight of two employees   

2006-2010 

Updated Oct. 2015 
 

 

Lawrence - 3 

  Created  and  presented  client-specific  studies  to  define  and  improve  trading  behaviors  for  top-tier 
equity  clients.    Studies  ranged  from  defining  performance  metrics  for  various  strategies  to  capturing 
market irregularities that may impact trading to calculating theoretical savings of one strategy versus 
another 

  Designed,  researched,  and  created  studies  on  current  topics  of  interest  in  the  electronic  trading 
marketplace.    Responsible  for  presenting  studies  to  clients  and  facilitating  insightful  discussion  in 
meetings to use as feedback for follow-ups and future studies.  Last study completed before departure 
was related to high frequency trading 

  Also  held  salestrading  responsibilities  -  Primary  coverage  for  22  clients  ranging  from  start-up 
statistical arbitrage shops to hedge funds to multi-billion dollar mutual funds; included educating them 
on ML’s electronic product offerings and developing a deeper relationship for continuing sales   

  Provided transaction cost analyses on a daily / weekly / monthly / quarterly basis to clients 
  Created automatic querying tools for desk use that optimized search methods for tracking performance 
and trades.  Tools had objectives as follows: analyze client trades for accuracy / effectiveness versus 
historical  and  real-time  data,  compare  recent  activity  with  previous  time  periods,  &  report  across 
different sub-sections of data captured by the trading desk 

 

 
REFERENCES 
 
Felix Oberholzer-Gee (committee chair) 
Andreas Andresen Professor of Business Administration 
Senior Associate Dean, Chair, MBA Program 
Harvard Business School 
Morgan Hall T37 
Boston, MA 02163 
617.495.6770 
foberholzer@hbs.edu 
 
Jan Rivkin 
Bruce V. Rauner Professor of Business Administration 
Senior Associate Dean for Research 
Harvard Business School 
Morgan Hall 239 
Boston, MA 02163 
617.495.6690 
jrivkin@hbs.edu 
 
 

Juan Alcacer 
Professor of Business Administration 
Harvard Business School 
Morgan Hall 227 
Boston, MA 02163 
617.495.6338 
jalcacer@hbs.edu 
 
Victor Bennett 
Assistant Professor of Strategy 
Duke University, Fuqua School of Business 
100 Fuqua Drive, Box 90120 
Durham, NC 27708 
919.660.7998 
vmb10@duke.edu 
 
 

Updated Oct. 2015 
 

 

Lawrence - 4 

