CURRICULUM VITAE 

 

Sara J. Holland MSN, RN, ATCN, CCRN 

sara.holland@uphs.upenn.edu 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Education 
 
January 1990 – June 1994 
 
 
September 1998 – June 2002   
 
 
 
January 2003 – December 2007 
 
 
Professional experience 
 
 
September 2011 to present time 

 

 

 

 

 

Burlington Country College  ASN 
Pemberton, NJ 

University of Delaware 
Newark, DE 

BSN 

 

Villanova University   
Villanova, PA 

MSN Education 

  Professor at University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing, Philadelphia, PA.  

Education of theoretical and researched based components in an interactive 
learning simulation environment. Achievement of clinical competencies for 
students to develop and enhance cognitive thinking skills.  

September 2008 to June 2010 

 

  Adjunct Clinical Instructor at Burlington County College and UMDNJ Schools of 

Nursing. Responsibilities include application of the theoretical knowledge in a 
clinical setting. Developing clinical days while promoting critical thinking in an 
acute care setting.  Facilitation of pre-and post conference that include student 
presentations of patient populations, medication administration, nursing policies 
and procedures, and evidenced based practice.  

 
December 2002 to present time 

 
 

  Clinical Level III RN and the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania.  

Responsible for primary care nursing to trauma and surgical post op patients. 
Interacting with residents, fellows and nurse practitioners in a high paced, 
critically evolving environment. 

 
December 2006 to January 2009 

  Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, assistant Nurse Manager. 

Responsibilities include supporting unit manager in daily operations of 24 bed 
trauma surgical critical care unit, establishing processes and work practices for the 
unit, staff evaluations, unit budget, patient and family satisfaction, performance 
improvement initiatives, interviewing and hiring of new staff.  

 
April 1998 to December 2006 

 
 

  Staff Nurse. Responsibilities include caring for critically ill patients in a 24 bed 

ICU/CCU which include primary care nursing to critically ill patients. Orientation 
& precepting new nurses to critical care. Taking to role of charge nurse involving 
patient assignments and triaging the unit.  

 
 
February 1994 to April 1998 

 

  Staff Nurse. Responsibilities include caring for medical/surgical patients, charge 

nurse, preceptor to new nurses, patient family focused care environment.  

 
Licensure –Professional Nurse PA and NJ License 
 
Certifications:  
 
February 2006 
August 2011 
February 2011 
May 2011 
 
Professional organizations 
 
 
Committees 
 

ATCN 
ACLS 
CPR/BLS 
CCRN 

American Association of Critical Care Nurses 
Member since 2002 

  Education committee.  Implemented new preceptor and orientation program for 

trauma surgical critical care unit gateway program. Implemented electronic 
documentation unit based education. Beta tested new versions yearly with 
VISICU programmers. Staff support to go-lives at HUP, Pennsylvania and 
Presbyterian Hospitals. Shock lecture in critical care program. Super user for 
KBC (knowledge based charting) implementation. Lecture at level I/II education 
for critical care nurses.  

 

  Unit council member. Stewardship committee co-chair. Member of hospital based 

councils governing nursing practice and patient safety initiatives.  

 
University of Pennsylvania Hospital 
 
June 2004 to 2009 
June 2004 to 2007 
November 2003 to December 2006  VISICU Chair R5 
September 2007 to present 
PennPals Global Nurse 
 
 
Virtua Hospital Mount Holly NJ 
 

Elected member of R5 unit council committee 
Stewardship council member 

Education Chair 
Chair of clinical nurse global outreach program 

Unit education committee 

April 1998 to December 2002 
 
Research 
 
University of Pennsylvania Hospital 
 
November 2006 to November 2007  Primary Investigator in Nursing Perception study of 
electronic health records/documentation. Impact of 
technology on the bedside clinician. 

 
Professional presentations 
 
University of Pennsylvania Hospital   
 
Rapid fire panel trauma education.  Guest speaker discussing the role of the eRN and 

 
Maryland Society of Patient Safety   Guest speaker on behalf of VISICU, relationships 

critical care. June 2005 

 
VISICU users group meeting 

 
PennPals Initiative 

 
Community/Volunteer 
 
Haiti Walk for Water 

HUPs PUPs 

Penn Pals 

between the critical care RN and the eRN. May 
2006. 

Guest speaker on panel with representatives from 
University of Pennsylvania to discuss impact of 
eICU in critical care. November 2004. 

Presented Global Nurse Initiative at Global Nurse 
Luncheon Penn Tower, April 2011 

Organized with SoN March 2011 – Haiti Walk for 
Water on Penn Campus 
Volunteer Pet Therapy Program at HUP and Arden 
Courts Alzheimers/Dementia Unit, Cherry Hill NJ 
Organize Community Outreach programs globally 
and within the City of Philadelphia. Host foreign 
exchange nursing students.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Penn Pals Global Nurse Initiative 
 

Vision: To be recognized as a premier exemplar of clinical nurse’s innovation for 
global health improvement 
Mission: To strengthen the relationship between HUP Nurses and Global Community 
of nurses through knowledge sharing, nurse exchange programs, and professional 
development of nurses at a global level 

As HUP nurses, we want to do some good for our colleagues around the world. Not 
for the pay, but for the privilege that comes with being a nurse in the U.S. working in 
a quaternary academic medical center. We want to share our knowledge, give our 
time, expand the reach of our compassion and learn from the resilience of our 
colleagues around the world. The Penn pals initiative will give us the platform to do 
so. 
 
Accomplishments: 
 
  July 2010 – drafted a proposal to Nursing Administration for approval for Penn 

Pals Initiative 

  October 2010 – sold tee-shirts for SoN to raise money for walk for water project 
  February 2011 – presented Penn Pals initiative at Cultural luncheon 
  November 2010 – collected dresses from nurses on R5 sent to Haitian nurses 

graduating from their BSN program in collaboration with FSIL 

  March 2011 – Organized Walk for Water for Haiti raising over 12,000 $ for clean 

water filters for nursing clinics in Haiti 

  April 2011 – Officially accepted by nursing leadership under the GNP. obtained 

email address PennPals@uphs.upenn.edu 

  May 2011- established leadership structure and strategic initiatives. Sent call for 

members application 

  June 2011- hosted nursing student from Scotland Fiona Swan 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

