CURRICULUM VITAE 

R. JOHN MINER 

 

 
BACKGROUND AND QUALIFICATIONS 
 
SUMMARY: 
R. John Miner is an accomplished engineer, executive manager, educator and consultant with 
over forty (40) years of professional experience.  He is Owner and President of Collaborative 
Learning, Inc. established in 1995, also doing business as Collaboration Unlimited and 
located in Austin and San Antonio, Texas.  In this capacity, Mr. Miner provides a wide range 
of management and technical consulting, litigation support, and educational services.  His 
clients include both public and private sector electric utilities, utility and technical associations, 
educational institutions, and law firms.  
Mr.  Miner  provides  expert  litigation  support  on  matters  involving  contractual  disputes, 
electrical accidents, and compliance with both the National Electrical Safety Code (NESC - 
ANSI Standard C-2) and OSHA regulations applicable to electric utility distribution systems.  
He routinely presents seminars and short courses throughout the U.S on electrical distribution 
system design, construction, operation, and maintenance as well as electrical safety and the 
NESC.   

EDUCATION: 
Mr. Miner has earned the following engineering degrees from the University of Toledo, Toledo 
Ohio, in programs accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology: 
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, December 1969, with honors. 
Master of Science in Engineering Science, December 1972. 
Mr.  Miner  has  continued  his  technical  and  management  education  throughout  his  career 
through a combination of employment, formal study, self-study, and teaching others.  He has 
served  a  full-time  appointment  on  the  faculty  at  the  University  of  Houston's  College  of 
Technology  and  has  been  active  in  the  national  accreditation  of  engineering  technology 
programs.  Mr. Miner is a past Commissioner on the Technology Accreditation Commission 
of  the  Accreditation  Board  for  Engineering  and  Technology  and  is  a  past  Chair  of  the 
Committee  on  Technology  Accreditation  for  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and  Electronics 
Engineers.  

 

 

 

 

  Copyright © 2015 Collaboration Unlimited 

 

 

1 

CURRICULUM VITAE 

R. JOHN MINER 

 

 

 
PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION: 
Mr. Miner is a registered Professional Engineer in two states: 

Minnesota - Professional Engineer 12151 since 1976  

Texas - Professional Engineer (Electrical) 36452 since 1974 

 
PREVIOUS EMPLOYMENT: 
September  2000  to August  2001  -  With  R.  J.  Covington  Consulting  in Austin, Texas  as 
Executive  Vice  President.    In  this  position,  Mr.  Miner  was  responsible  for  client  relations, 
business development, internal organization and operations, and project management.  He 
was  also  actively  engaged  as  a  principal  consultant  on  a  wide  range  of  client  projects 
involving business strategy formulation, general management, infrastructure development, 
organization development, performance management, engineering and operations.   
 
July 1994 to August 2000 - with R. W. Beck, Inc., an international utility consulting firm, as 
Senior  Director  of  Performance  Management  Consulting,  Executive  Engineer  and  Client 
Services  Director  of  the  Austin  office.  In  these  positions  Mr.  Miner  was  responsible  for 
management and engineering consulting to electric utilities, electric utility associations and 
related industries throughout the U.S. Services provided include general engineering analysis 
and design as well as project feasibility, siting, design, financing, construction management, 
strategic business planning, competitive assessment, organizational development, business 
process re-engineering, benchmarking, performance management, and the development and 
delivery  of  technical  and  management  education  programs  for  electric  utilities  and  utility 
associations throughout the U.S. and overseas. 
 
October 1989 to June 1994 with Resource Management International, Inc., an international 
consulting firm as Principal Executive Consultant and Director, Organization Development.  
In  these  positions  Mr.  Miner  was  responsible  for  management  consulting,  operational 
auditing, performance measurement and improvement, operations and maintenance support, 
engineering  analysis,  and  the  development  and  delivery  of  technical  and  management 
training programs for electric utilities. 
 
February 1987 to September 1989 with the City of Austin Electric Utility Department (now 
Austin  Energy), Austin, Texas  as  Chief  Operating  Officer.    In  this  position  Mr.  Miner  was 
responsible for power generation engineering and operations, transmission and distribution 
planning,  design,  construction  and  operations,  system  control,  and  corporate  computer 
resources.   
 
 
 
 

  Copyright © 2015 Collaboration Unlimited 

 

 

2 

CURRICULUM VITAE 

R. JOHN MINER 

 

 
PREVIOUS EMPLOYMENT (Continued): 

 

October 1983 to January 1987 with the Rochester Public Utilities, Rochester, Minnesota, as 
General Manager. Functional areas reporting to Mr. Miner included the electric utility, water 
utility, finance and accounting, management services and public relations.  Mr. Miner also 
served on the Board of Directors of the Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency, holding 
offices as President and Treasurer. 
October 1978 to September 1983, Director, Power Division, Rochester Public Utilities with 
responsibility for management of the electric and steam district heating utility systems 
January  1978  to  October  1978,  Manager  of  Engineering,  Rochester  Public  Utilities, 
responsible  for  transmission  and  distribution  engineering,  power  plant  and  mechanical 
engineering, drafting and records, and environmental compliance. 
June 1976 to January 1978, Electrical Engineer, Rochester Public Utilities, responsible for 
system  electrical  and  mechanical  engineering,  environmental  compliance,  and  system 
records. 
April  1973  to  June  1976,  Design  Engineer  with  Bovay  Engineers,  Inc.,  Houston, Texas, 
responsible  for  project  engineering  design,  economic  feasibility  and  rate  studies  for  rural 
electric, municipal utility, federal government, and large commercial clients.  
January 1973 to June 1976, Assistant Professor with the University of Houston College of 
Technology.    Engaged  in  the  development  and  teaching  of  a  four-year ABET-accredited 
curriculum  leading  to  the  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  in  Electric  Power  Engineering 
Technology. 
September  1969  to  January  1973,  Senior  Design  Engineer,  Toledo  Edison  Company, 
Toledo, Ohio, with engineering and project management responsibilities on 138kV and 345kV 
transmission and substation projects. 
 
PUBLICATIONS and PRESENTATIONS: 
Mr.  Miner  has  authored  and  co-authored  a  number  of  professional  manuscripts  and  has 
delivered numerous presentations on a wide range of management and technical subjects at 
conferences and seminars throughout the U.S.  He is recognized for his ability to translate 
and  present  complex  and  technical  subjects  in  understandable  terms  to  audiences  of  all 
types.  Mr. Miner authored in 1999 and updated in 2006 (second edition) and 2013 (third 
edition) a book entitled Electric Utility Basics: How Electricity Is Made, Who Delivers It, 
and the Changing Electric Utility Industry.   This book, which is published by the American 
Public Power Association, describes the impact of industry restructuring and competition on 
the technical and business operation of electric utility systems.  Mr. Miner also authored an 
OSHA Compliance Manual for the Tennessee Valley Public Power Association and was a 
contributing  author  on  the  topic  of  electrical  distribution  systems  for  the  Handbook  of 
Mechanical and Electrical Systems for Buildings. 

  Copyright © 2015 Collaboration Unlimited 

 

 

3 

CURRICULUM VITAE 

R. JOHN MINER 

 

 
PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES: 
  Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) 

 

Past IEEE Representative to the Technology Accreditation Commission  
 

  Past IEEE program evaluator for electrical engineering technology   
 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE) 
  Senior Life Member 

curricula 

 
 
 
 

Past Chair of IEEE national Committee on Technology Accreditation Activities 

 

 

 

  Past Chairman, American Public Power Association (APPA) Transmission & Distribution 

Committee 

  Past Member, Board of Directors of the APPA DEED research and development program 
  Past Member, APPA Performance Management Committee 
  Past Member, Management Committee of the Mid-Continent Area Power Pool (MAPP) 
  Past Member, Technical Advisory Committee of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas 
  Past President, Southeast Minnesota Chapter, Minnesota Society of Professional 

Engineers 

  Management and Technical Educator to electric utilities and associations on a wide 

range of topics including: 
  Overhead and Underground Distribution Systems 
  Electrical Distribution Theory and Economics 
  Effective Management of Electric Field Operations 
  System Operations and Maintenance 
  National Electrical Safety Code 
  Power Quality 
  Competition and Restructuring in the Electric Utility Industry 
  Organizational Performance Management 
  Quality Systems 
  Strategic Planning 
  General Management 

 
HONORS: 
Tau Beta Pi - Engineering Honorary Society 
Eta Kappa Nu - Electrical Engineering Honorary Society 
Texas Public Power Association - 1989, Distinguished Service Award 
National Society of Professional Engineers 
Young Engineer of the Year - 1978, SE Minnesota Chapter 
 
 

  Copyright © 2015 Collaboration Unlimited 

 

 

4 

CURRICULUM VITAE 

R. JOHN MINER 

 

 
CONTINUING EDUCATION: 

 

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN, DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT 
Course developer and instructor for the following courses: 

  National Electrical Safety Code  
  Effective Maintenance for Electrical Distribution Systems 
  Overhead Electrical Distribution Design  
  Underground Electrical Distribution Design   
 

Introduction to Distribution Engineering (National Rural Electric Cooperative Association 
University-Based Program for Early-Career Engineers) 

  Distribution Reliability for Electric Utilities 
  The Electric Utility Business From The Inside Out  
  The New Electric Utility Business  
  The Electric Utility Wires Business  

AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER ASSOCIATION (APPA)                                        
UTILITY EDUCATION COURSES 
  Public Power Manager Certificate Program (developer/instructor) 
  Executive Development Institute (Instructor) 
  Effective Management of Electric Field Operations (developer/instructor) 
  Assessing & Improving the Competitive Position of Your Public Power System 

(developer/instructor) 

  Constructing, Operating & Maintaining Underground Distribution Systems 

(developer/Instructor) 
Improving the Performance of Underground Distribution Systems (Instructor) 

 
  Designing & Operating Efficient Overhead Distribution Systems (Instructor) 
  Electrical Distribution (developer/instructor) 
  National Electrical Safety Code (developer/instructor) 
  Electricity Basics: An Update on Utility Operations and Restructuring (Instructor) 
  Policymakers Workshop (Instructor) 
  Advanced Policymakers Seminar 
  Advanced Rate Design 
  Utility Marketing Strategies 
  Public Power Governing Board Members Workshop 
  Cogeneration Seminar 
  Forecasting Techniques for Public Power Systems 
  Utility Finance and Accounting for Non-Financial Executives 
  Executive Development Program 
  Effective Verbal and Written Communications 
  Energy Management for Commercial and Industrial Loads 
  Economics of Conservation 

  Copyright © 2015 Collaboration Unlimited 

 

 

5 

