Curriculum Vitae 

CAROLUS J. SCHRIJVER, Ph.D. 

 

Karel Schrijver received  his doctorate at the University  of Utrecht, the Netherlands, on the topic of solar 

and stellar magnetic activity. After postdoctoral appointments at the University of Colorado and the European 
Space Agency,  and a fellowship of  the  Royal  Netherlands  Academy  of  Sciences,  he  now  is  senior  fellow  at 

the Lockheed Martin Advanced Technology Center. His research focuses on the magnetic activity of the Sun, 

the coupling of the Sun's magnetic field into the heliosphere and its solar wind, the manifestations of magnetic 
activity of other Sun-like stars, and the impact of solar variability on society.  

In  addition  to  scientific  research,  he  is  actively  involved  in  developing  and  operating  space 

instrumentation:  he  was  the  science  lead  and  later  the  Principal  Investigator  for  the  Transition  Region  and 
Coronal  Explorer  (TRACE)  and  for  the  Atmospheric  Imaging  Assembly  (AIA)  of  the  Solar  Dynamics 

Observatory  (SDO),  and  is  co-investigator  on  the  Helioseismic  and Magnetic  Imager  (HMI)  on  SDO  and on 

the  Interface  Region  Imaging  Spectrograph  (IRIS)  SMEX  project.  As  LM  Senior  Fellow  at  the  Advanced 
Technology Center, he is involved in defining and developing instrumentation for future heliophysics missions. 

He has served in NASA advisory functions, including the NASA Sun-Earth Connection strategic planning 

(RoadMap)  teams  for  2000  and  2003,  the  panel  on  Theory  and  Modeling  of  the  NASA  Living-With-a-Star 
(LWS) initiative, the LWS Science Architecture Team, the LWS Mission Operations Working Group (MOWG; 

2003-2005)  the  Solar-Heliospheric  MOWG  (2007-2009),  the  LWS  TR&T  Steering  Group  (2010,  and  2012), 

the NASA Heliophysics Subcommittee (2010-…), and the Science Definition Teams of the Solar Orbiter and 
Solar Sentinels.  He was a member of the NRC Space Studies Board (2002-2005).  

His  interests  include  disseminating  newly  developed  understanding  of  our  neighboring  star  and  its 

influence on society to students and the general public. He co-authored the first textbook on solar and stellar 
magnetic  activity  and  defined  and  led  the  first  phase  of  the  Heliophysics  Summer  School  that  resulted  in  a 

textbook  series  on  heliophysics  as  an  integrated  science.  He  has  written  popular  science  papers  in,  for 

example,  Sky  and  Telescope;  he  developed  multiple  posters  and  an  annual  calendar  for  public  distribution; 
and  he  has  been  an  advisor  in,  or  contributor  to,  science  programs  for  planetariums,  an  international  IMAX 

production, and public television programs. 

 

Affiliation: 

 

 

LM Senior Fellow at the  

Lockheed Martin Advanced Technology Center (A021S/252) 
 

  3251 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, CA 94304 

Phone/Fax: 650-424-2907/ 650-354-5445 

e-mail: schryver@lmsal.com;  
e-home: http://www.lmsal.com/~schryver 

Selected professional activities and community service: 

2012 – 2014 
2010 – …  

President of Commission 10 (Solar Activity) of the International Astronomical Union; 
Member NASA’s Heliophysics Subcommittee; 

2002 – … 

1996 – … 
1994 – … 

Founding member of the Editorial Board of Living Reviews in Solar Physics; 

Member of the Advisory Board of Astronomical Notices; 
Member of the Editorial Board of Solar Physics; as Chairman 2009-2010.  

Selected publications: 

 
 
 

126 research articles (published, in press, or submitted) in peer reviewed journals; 
monograph Solar and Stellar Magnetic Activity with C. Zwaan; 

3 textbooks on Heliophysics (as primary editor and chapter co-author) with G.L. Siscoe; 

Carolus J. Schrijver                                                                                                                           Page 2 
 

 

