 

Mark Andrews - Football Coaching CV 

 

6 Marlborough Road, Banbury, Oxfordshire. OX16 5BZ 

  

(H) +44 (0)1295 252376     (M) +44 (0)7952 579358 

(E) markandrews@lineone.net 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Married (to Susan) 

3rd January 1961 

UK Athletics Level 1 

EBBA Basketball Level 1   

UEFA B Coaching Licence 

FA Safeguarding Children 

American Red Cross CPR/AED 

FA Level 2 Coaching Certificate 

FA Coaching Disabled Footballers  

USA TOPS Disabled Soccer Coaching 

Rebecca (27) Joshua (22) Freddie (21) 

 
 
Qualifications: 
 
FA Licensed Coach Member 
 
FA Emergency Aid 
 
FA Generic Tutor Training  
 
SAQ Licence 
 
Double Goal Positive Coaching 
 
 
Personal Information: 
 
Date of Birth: 
 
Status:   
 
Children: 
 
 
Personal Statement: 
 
I have been involved with football as a player and a coach for over 40 years.  I bring Experience, Enthusiasm, Structure, 
Creativity and an Appetite for Success.  I possess excellent communication and man-management skills.  My aim is to engage 
with players whatever their age, ability or individual motivation.  To build confidence and empower players to realise their full 
potential to play the beautiful game.  
 
1977 – 2002: 
 
After  a  professional  football  career  with  Brighton  &  Hove  Albion  FC  and  Aldershot  FC  I  continued  to  play  semi-professional 
whilst forging an alternative career in Sales.  I held sales positions with various companies including Pernod, TDK & Scwarzkopf. 
 
I moved into Field Marketing where I was responsible for Business Development and Client Account Management.  I ran contract 
sales operations for various corporate clients including Disney, Nintendo, Pirelli and ICI. 
 
Latterly, I held the position of Sales & Marketing Director with a staging company within the portable staging industry. Clients 
included Millennium Dome, Royal Opera House London, Pink Floyd and a range of Conference and Event companies.  In addition 
to  building  the  brand  in  the  UK  domestic  market,  I  was  responsible  for  the  appointment,  development  and  management  of 
overseas distributors.  Upon redundancy in 2002, I launched TEAMSOCCER. 
 
Oct 2002 – Present: 
 
Teamsoccer is primarily targeted at Youth football for children aged 3 to 16.   
 
As  proprietor,  In  addition  to  the  Coaching  Curriculum,  I  am  responsible  for  all  sales,  marketing,  promotion,  recruitment, 
administration and finance. 
 
I  am  responsible  for  all  TEAMSOCCER  activities  which  include  after  school  clubs,  weekly  courses,  soccer  camps,  birthday 
parties, team training, Futsal courses and in-house training/coach development. 
 
May 2012 to Present 

Racing Club Warwick FC   

1st Team Coach 

TEAMSOCCER 

Proprietor 

 

 

 

 

1st Team Coach for semi-professional team playing in the Midland Combination Premier League. 

Responsible for 1st team coaching and team development programme.  

 

 

 

Scout 

Achieve Management 

Feb 2012 to Present 
 
Responsible for identifying players as potential clients of FA Licensed Agent. 
 
 
June 2011 to Present 
 
As a Regional Scout, responsible for player identification of players aged 7 to 18 for the Oxford United Youth Academy.  
 
Head Coach at the Regional Player Development Centre (Banbury) for U7’s to U14’s.  This involves: 
 

Regional Scout/Coach 

Oxford United FC   

 

 

Identifying players who exhibit potential to play at a higher level and developing them to achieve their potential.  

 
  Devising Player Development Centre Coaching Programme 
  Administration  
  Recruitment 
  Match day duties for fixtures against other Professional Club Development Centres 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coach 

Sierra Leone  

Volunteer Coach 

New York Red Bulls 

 
 
Jan 2011 to Feb 2011 
 
Invited to coach U14 and U17 Academy teams of Banbury United FC Sierra Leone and run Clinics for club coaches.  
 
Worked with elite players including players from the U17, U20 and Senior National teams.   
 
Identify players for recommendation to Professional Academies Worldwide.   
 
While  with  the  club,  I  assisted  them  with  administration  procedures  and  put  in  place  a  club  structure  including  systems  and 
controls to effectively manage the day to day activities within the club.   
 
 
Sept 2009 – Nov 2010: 
 
Responsible for delivering the New York Red Bull Coaching Curriculum within the New York and New Jersey areas to both 
recreational and competitive players.  
 
The creation and implementation of Seasonal Development Plans for both Recreational and Competitive programmes, Team and 
Individual Player Evaluations, Team Analysis, Game Analysis, Session Plans and Summer Camps throughout the Tri-State area. 
 
Gained two promotions in two seasons with my primary competitive U13/U14 boys team, Eastchester Gunners. 
 
Worked with the Pre-Academy - Regional Development Schools coaching advanced players and assisted in player identification 
for future Regional Development School programs. 
 
Ran NYRB program in Newark NJ for disadvantaged children in partnership with the Claudio Reyna Foundation 
 
Ran Coaching Clinics for US Coaches as part of New York Red Bulls support to grass roots clubs. 
 
Observed 1st Team training sessions as part of ongoing Coach Development/Education.  
 
Coached SUNY Purchase College Women’s Soccer Team during the Spring of 2010. (Volunteer Position) 
 
Coached Yonkers High School Boys Varsity Soccer Team during the Spring of 2010. (Volunteer Position) 
 
 
July 2008 – Sept 2009 
 
Joined the team following a disappointing 2007/2008 season when the team finished in the lower half of their league.   
 
In one of the clubs most successful seasons, I coached the team to Runner-Up in the Coventry Alliance Premier League and  
 
Winners of the League Cup (Stan Oulds Trophy) for the 2008/2009 football season. 
 
 
 
 

1st Team Coach 

Stockton FC   

 

 

 

Coach 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Various 

 

Banbury United FC  

Woodford United FC 

U18 Manager/Reserves/Ladies Coach 

1st Team Coach / U18 Manager 

 
July 2007 – Feb 2008 
 
1st Team Coach for team playing in the Southern League - Central Division 
 
Managed and Coached Youth Team playing in the Midland Floodlit Youth League. 
 
 
Aug 2003 – May 2007  
 
Coached and managed youth team through from U14 to U18.  
 
Took responsibility as Caretaker Manager for Reserves at the start of the 2007 season playing in The Hellenic League West.    
 
1st Team coach for Banbury United Ladies team during the 2005/2006 season. 
 
 
Aug 2003 – Aug 2008 
 
During this time, in addition to developing the TEAMSOCCER business, I have been involved with: 
 
Premiership club, Birmingham City in the capacity of Regional Scout. 
 
Girls County Development Centres with both Oxfordshire and Northamptonshire working with girls from U10 to U16. 
 
Disability Sports Sessions and Oxford United Disability Football Festival 
 
Delivering taster sessions for girls aged 8 to 16 within local Primary/Secondary Schools on behalf of Cherwell District Council. 
 
Professional League 2 club, Oxford United delivering Matchday Special Coaching Events, Weekly Football Development Clinics  
and Football Holiday Courses. 
 
 
Additional Training 
 
Sports Coach UK – FUNdamentals of Movement 
Sports Coach UK – Multi-Skill Clubs in Practice 
Sports Coach UK – Good Practice & Child Protection 
Sports Coach UK – Equity in Your Coaching 
Sports Coach UK – How to Coach Disabled People in Sport 
Sports Coach UK – Observation, Analysis & Video 
 
 
References are available on request. 
 
 
 
 
 

