Curriculum Vitae 

John David Parkinson OBE, M.St. (Cantab), Comp. I.M.S.	  

Personal Information 

John David Parkinson 
  

Full Name: 
 
Telephone (m):  0044 (0)7802 305466 
E-mail:  
 

John@jdparkinsonconsultancy.co.uk  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary 
 
Occupational Field: Police, Counter Terrorism, Organised and Major Crime Investigation 
 
Recent Work Experience: 

 

 

 

 

•  Chief Constable (ret.) – West Yorkshire Police 
•  UK Senior National Coordinator Counter Terrorism 
•  Head of Counter Terrorism Unit - Role incorporated Head of Profession for Special 
Branch, Head of Profession for Counter Terrorism Senior Investigating Officers and 
Regional Counter Terrorism Coordinator for the ACPO No 2 (North East) Region.) 

Main Activities and Responsibilities: 

Served with West Yorkshire Police for over 33 years becoming Chief Constable in 2012. 
Career centred on criminal investigation with specialisms in homicide, kidnap and extortion 
and  organised  crime  enquiries.  In  2004  became  accredited  as  an  Association  of  Chief 
Police Officers Counter Terrorism Senior Investigating Officer working with the Metropolitan 
Police  and  intelligence  partners  leading  the  investigation  in  Leeds  into  the  7/7  London 
Bombings.  Led  the  development  to  increase  police  counter  terrorism  capability  and 
capacity and established the first North East Counter Terrorism Unit. Has been the Gold 
Commander on many Counter Terrorism Operations and led many national CT Exercises 
training  and  developing  senior  UK  Police  Officers.  Performed  the  role  of  Senior  National 
Coordinator  Counter  Terrorism  at  Scotland  Yard  before  becoming  Deputy  Chief  and 
subsequently  Chief  Constable  of  the  4th  largest  Police  Force  in  the  UK.  Was  a  Vice 
President  of  the  Association  of  Chief  Police  Officers  Terrorism  and  Allied  Matters 
Committee. 

 

 

 

Career History 
 
After a long career in criminal investigation became heavily involved in the National Counter 
Terrorism Project Review of capability and capacity of UK policing and headed one of the 
three  Counter  Terrorism  Units  in  the  UK.  Leading  on  many  areas  of  development, 
operational  practises  and  threat  mitigation.  A  graduate  of  the  International  Leadership  in 
Counter Terrorism Program (LinCT) becoming President of the Alumni Association in 2008 
and  has  worked  closely  with  colleagues  in  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation  (FBI), 
Australian  Federal  Police  (AFP),  the  Royal  Canadian  Mounted  Police  (RCMP)  and  other 
organisations across the world working in the counter terrorism field. 
 

 1	  

Curriculum Vitae 

John David Parkinson OBE, M.St. (Cantab), Comp. I.M.S.	  

Was a consultant editor of the first and subsequently widely acclaimed and published 2009 
Blackstone’s  Counter  Terrorism  Handbook  and  a  contributor  to  the  2012  published 
Routledge Companion to UK Counter Terrorism. 
 
A Companion of the Institute of Management Specialists (Comp. I.M.S.) and graduated from 
the  Association  of  Chief  Police  Officers  Strategic  Command  Course  in  2008.  Was  firstly 
appointed  to  the  role  of  Assistant  Chief  Constable  before  going  onto  become  Deputy  and 
then  Chief  Constable  of  West  Yorkshire  Police.  Was  awarded  the  OBE  for  services  to 
Policing and Counter Terrorism in 2011. 
 
Retired from policing one of UK’s largest police forces in 2013 and now runs a successful 
consultancy business delivering solutions on a wide range of contemporary counter terrorism 
policing, security and intelligence issues, recently presenting at the US Homeland Security / 
Leadership in Counter Terrorism Conference 2013. 
 
Highly computer literate and competent in a variety of software applications. 

Education 
 
Holds a Masters Degree (with Distinction) from Cambridge University in Applied Criminology 
and Police Management and is a Companion of the Institute of Management Specialists. A 
graduate of the International Leadership in Counter Terrorism Programme (LinCT) and holds 
a NEBOSH Certificate with Distinction. 
 
Also  a  Visiting  Senior  Research  Fellow  at  CENTRIC  (Centre  of  Excellence  for  Terrorism, 
Resilience, Intelligence & Organised Crime Research) based at Sheffield Hallam University 
and is Chair of the CENTRIC Advisory Board. 
 
Training and Accreditation 
 
Is Developed Vetted (DV) and holds accreditation in the following Association of Chief Police 
Officers professional disciplines:  

ACPO Counter Terrorism Commander - 2011 
ACPO Advanced Public Order Commander - 2009 
ACPO Gold Strategic Firearms Commander - 2008 
ACPO Strategic Command Course - 2008 
ACPO Management of Linked Series and Serious Crime - 2005 
ACPO Counter Terrorism Senior Investigating Officer - 2004 
ACPO Management of Disaster and Civil Emergency - 2001 
ACPO National Kidnap & Extortion Course - 2001 
National Senior Investigating Officers Course (4 Modules) 
British Military Command Course: 

Counter Revolutionary Warfare and Counter Insurgency Module - 1996 

 2	  

