résumé  darshan gyanchand runwal e-319 palash nivas international institute of information technology gachibowli hyderabad 500032. mobile: +91-9642990991     res: +91-9579990991 email: darshanrunwal@gmail.com darshan.runwal@students.iiit.ac.in objective: to strive for excellence in the field of computer science by growing professionally via learning from the organization and contributing my knowledge in its success. academic background qualification institute percentage/cgpa m.tech (computer science and information security) may 2011 international institute of information technology hyderabad b. e. (computer engineering) may 2011 vidyalankar institute of technology mumbai university hsc mar 2007 ssc mar 2005 achievements ramnivas ruia college maharashtra state board golden jubilee school jalna cbse academics:  dean's merit list award first year m.tech at iiit-hyderabad.  secured 2nd place in “tantravihar” college level project presentation may 2011. co-curricular:  successfully completed dale carnegie step-up to excellence program. 9.22 78.13% 83.67% 87.00% technical skills platforms: languages: scripting: backend: markup languages: ide: xp windows 7 vista linux (ubuntu fedora centos) c c++ c# java shell scripting php sqlite3 mysql postgresql oracle 9i html/css xml netbeans visual studio eclipse projects & papers:     sayitnow! [major project] developed applications that offered speech synthesis and voice recognition in the windows environment. a range of applications/services were developed using c#.net platform. protocol for mutual authentication and privacy preserved communication [paper] proposed an algorithm for mutual authentication of nodes in vehicular adhoc networks and conducting privacy preserved communication in the network as part of sytstem & network security course. encoding of keystrokes in keyboard device driver to safeguard against keyloggers [paper] proposed a technique to safeguard users from keyloggers for secure file based operations as part of research in information security course. fuzzy logics & intrusion detection systems [course project] studied the inclusion of fuzzy logics in anamoly based intrusion detection systems and proposed a technique for the same as part of course project.  wikipedia search engine [project] developed a complete search engine for english wikipedia dump (40 gb) that can fetch results for short queries in less than a second and supported advanced search features.  multilingual named entity recognition [project] developed a parallel corpus system for identifying named entites in hindi wikipedia dump using english wikipedia dumps and stanford ner system.  gui for xen configuration file [project] developed a java swing based gui for generating the xen configuration file for ease of deployment of virtual machines. position of responsibility student placement coordinator for the m.tech batch in placement 2012 season.   organiser for quintessence-x vit.    team member of the creative team for quintessence-x vit. served as school house captain in the year 2004. served as school house vice-captain for the year 2003. additional information languages known: english hindi and marathi. interests: bloggingteaching programming and reading novels. personal profile: : darshan gyanchand runwal : 25th september 1989 name date of birth marital status    : single darshan runwal