naval postgraduate school 1 university way monterey ny 93943 http://www.atmos.albany.edu/student/heathera curriculum vitae heather m. archambault department of meteorology hmarcham@nps.edu (860) 575-0873   ph.d. in atmospheric science university at albany/suny albany ny advisors:  lance f. bosart and daniel keyser dissertation:  the downstream flow response to recurving tropical cyclones in the western north pacific m.s. in atmospheric science university at albany/suny albany ny advisors:  lance f. bosart and daniel keyser thesis:  cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern united states b.s. in meteorology minor global business strategies in the earth energy and materials industries pennsylvania state university university park pa  education  aug 2011  aug 2005  may 2002  apr-jul 2010 2003-2011   research experience  sep 2011-present national research council postdoctoral research associate naval postgraduate school monterey ca investigate how diabatic processes associated with the interaction between recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones and the jet stream impact the predictability of the downstream flow evolution. advisors: pat harr and rich moore. advanced studies program graduate student visitor national center for atmospheric research boulder co collaborated with chris davis on potential vorticity diagnostics of the diabatic signature of tropical cyclone-jet stream interaction during extratropical transition.  met with ncar and visiting scientists and delivered an informal seminar to scientists in the mesoscale and microscale meteorology division.  graduate research assistant university at albany/suny conducted research on extratropical transition cold-air outbreaks planetary- scale regime transitions rossby wave packets and meso- and synoptic-scale aspects of heavy precipitation events.     teaching experience  fall 2008  spring 2009  2003-2005 spring 2002-2004 fall 2001-2002 instructor synoptic laboratory i university at albany/suny taught a senior-level course covering fundamental topics in synoptic-dynamic meteorology; assumed responsibility for all aspects of the course. graduate teaching assistant synoptic laboratory ii university at albany/suny collaborated with the instructor in preparing map discussions and writing homework assignments quizzes and exams gave stand-in lectures and held office hours for a senior-level course covering advanced topics in synoptic- dynamic meteorology. graduate teaching assistant weather analysis and forecasting university at albany/suny led weekly map discussions held office hours and graded assignments quizzes and exams for a sophomore-level forecasting course.  graduate teaching assistant severe and hazardous weather analysis and forecasting university at albany/suny supervised biweekly student-led forecast discussions held office hours and graded assignments quizzes and exams for a junior-level forecasting course.  undergraduate teaching assistant introductory meteorology pennsylvania state university performed experiments prepared and presented lectures wrote and graded quizzes and assigned course grades for the laboratory section of a general education meteorology course.  other professional positions  jun-aug 2002 2001-2002 intern meteorologist aquila inc. kansas city mo constructed climatologies used to price weather derivatives.  forecast apprentice weather communications group pennsylvania state university wrote new york city boston and washington d.c. forecasts and prepared graphics for the new york times weather page.  professional service  panelist “looking back on recent tc field programs: lessons learned questions going forward” 15th cyclone workshop pacific grove ca mar 2011.  working group member “new research and field experiments in extratropical transition” seventh international workshop on tropical cyclones wmo/wwrp la réunion fr nov 2010.    2  lead forecaster “the pre-depression investigation of cloud-systems in the tropics” (predict) field campaign national science foundation st. croix u.s. virgin islands sep 2010.  forecaster “thorpex pacific-asian regional campaign” (t-parc) naval postgraduate school monterey ca aug 2008.  session chair  15th cyclone workshop pacific grove ca mar 2011. reviewer 14th cyclone workshop saint-adele qc sep 2008.  monthly weather review (ams) journal of climate (ams) geophysical research letters (agu)   contributor times union “weather and climate blog” (http://blog.timesunion.com/weather/)  honors and awards  best poster award wcrp open science conference denver co 2011  advanced studies program graduate student visitor award national center for atmospheric research 2010.  1st place graduate student division and overall - cheyenne wy national collegiate weather forecasting contest 2002.  joel n. and peggy myers scholarship for excellence in weather forecasting dept. of meteorology pennsylvania state university 2002.  robert o. cole award dept. of meteorology pennsylvania state university 2002.  deans freshman scholarship college of earth and mineral sciences pennsylvania state university 1998.  professional memberships and honor societies  american meteorological society 2002-present  chi epsilon pi national honor society 2001-present  refereed publications  archambault h. m. d. keyser and l. f. bosart 2010: relationships between large-scale regime    transitions and major cool-season precipitation events in the northeastern united states. mon. wea. rev. 138 3454-3473.  archambault h. m. l. f. bosart d. keyser and a. aiyyer 2008: influence of large-scale flow regimes on cool-season precipitation in the northeastern united states. mon. wea. rev. 136 2945- 2963.  3  evans c. h. m. archambault j. m. cordeira t. j. galarneau jr. k. s. griffin a. johnson w. komaromi s. monette p. muradyan b. murphy m. riemer j. sears b. tang and s. thompson 2011:  the pre-depression investigation of cloud-systems in the tropics (predict) field campaign: perspectives of early career scientists. bull. amer. meteor. soc. (in press).  bosart l. f. j. m. cordeira t. j. galarneau jr. b. j. moore and h. m. archambault 2011: an analysis of multiple predecessor rain events ahead of tropical cyclones ike and lowell (10-15 september 2008). mon. wea. rev. (in press).  publications in preparation  metz n. d. h. m. archambault a. f. srock t. j. galarneau jr. and l. f. bosart 2011: a comparison of south american and african preferential pathways for cold surges.  mon. wea. rev.  bosart l. f. j. m. cordeira and h. m archambault 2011: linked extreme weather events over the americas in october and november 2007 mon. wea. rev.  archambault h. m. l. f. bosart and d. keyser 2011: a climatological analysis of the downstream flow response to recurving tropical cyclones in the western north pacific. mon. wea. rev.  archambault h. m. d. keyser and l. f. bosart 2012: a compositing study of the downstream flow response to recurving tropical cyclones in the western north pacific. mon. wea. rev.  other publications  archambault h. m. 2010: large-scale flow reconfigurations over north america associated with recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones.  extended abstracts 29th conference on hurricanes and tropical meteorology tucson az amer. meteor. soc. 1d.2.  jones s. c. h. m. archambault j. beven l. f. bosart j. callaghan j. cordeira j. evans p. harr d. keyser n. kitabatake r. mctaggart-cowan r. torn and c. velden 2010: new research and field experiments in extratropical transition. seventh international workshop on tropical cyclones. la réunion fr wmo/wwrp (available online at http://www.cawcr.gov.au/projects/iwtc/documentation/2_4.pdf).  archambault h. m. d. keyser and l. f. bosart 2009: the extratropical flow response to recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones. noaa nws science and technology infusion climate bulletin dec 2009. (available online at http://www.nws.noaa.gov/ost/climate/stip/34cdpw/digest_dec09_p0.htm)  archambault h. m. 2005:  cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern united states. m.s. thesis department of earth and atmospheric sciences university at albany state university of new york 163 pp.  archambault h. m. d. keyser l. f. bosart and a. aiyyer 2004:  cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern united states. extended abstracts 1st thorpex international science symposium december 2004 montreal qc.  archambault h. m. l. f. bosart d. keyser and r. h. grumm 2004:  large-scale regime transition and its relationship to significant cool-season precipitation events in the northeast. preprints 20th conference on weather analysis and forecasting january 2004 seattle wa cd-rom paper p1.8.  4 invited presentations  jul 2006  other selected presentations  oct 2011  seminars  apr 2011  jun 2010  sep 2006  apr 2005  nov 2005  may 2011  mar 2011  jan 2011  nov 2010  may 2010   recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones as precursors to flow reconfigurations and extreme weather events over north america. university of oklahoma school of meteorology norman ok. large-scale flow reconfigurations over north america associated with recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones. noaa earth system research laboratory/physical sciences division boulder co. cool-season regime transition and its impact on northeast precipitation. ncep climate prediction center camp springs md. cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern united states. university at albany/suny albany ny.  cool-season regime transition and its impact on northeast precipitation. second annual eastern united states weather conference baltimore md. cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern united states. 6th southern new england weather conference brookline ma. recurving tropical cyclone-jet stream interactions over the western north pacific and their influence on the midlatitude circulation.  wcrp open science conference (poster). denver co. recurving tc-jet stream interactions.  part 1: a climatology and composite analysis. fifth tropical workshop dedham ma. reduced predictability and extreme weather events over north america following the recurvature of western north pacific tropical cyclones. 15th cyclone workshop pacific grove ca. the observed extratropical flow response to recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones. 23rd conference on climate variability and change/91st american meteorological society annual meeting seattle wa. high-impact weather and reduced predictability over the united states associated with the recurvature of western north pacific tc malakas (2010). 12th annual northeast regional operational workshop (nrow) albany ny. large-scale flow reconfigurations over north america associated with recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones. 29th conference on hurricanes and tropical meteorology tucson az. 5  may 2010    oct 2009 jul 2009 jun 2009  sep 2008  sep 2008  apr 2008  nov 2007  jun 2007 mar 2007  oct 2006  mar 2006 large-scale flow reconfigurations over north america associated with recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones. 2nd winter t-parc workshop boulder co. the extratropical flow response to recurving western north pacific tropical cyclones. 34th noaa annual climate diagnostics and prediction workshop monterey ca.  predictability associated with interactions between recurving west pacific tcs and the extratropical large-scale flow. iamas-iapso-iacs joint assembly montreal qc.  predictability associated with interactions between recurving west pacific tcs and the extratropical large-scale flow. 24th conference on weather analysis and forecasting omaha ne. relationships between large-scale regime transitions and major cool-season precipitation events in the northeast u.s.  14th cyclone workshop saint-adele qc. predictability associated with interactions between recurving west pacific tcs and the extratropical large-scale flow. 14th cyclone workshop saint-adele qc. predictability associated with interactions between recurving west pacific tcs and the extratropical large-scale flow. 28th conference on hurricanes and tropical meteorology orlando fl. recurving typhoons as precursors to an early season arctic outbreak over the continental u.s. 9th annual nrow albany ny. interactions between recurving west pacific tropical cyclones and the extratropical large- scale flow. 23rd conference on weather analysis and forecasting park city ut.  predictability of the january 22-24 2005 northeast blizzard. 32nd annual northeastern storm conference (nesc) springfield ma. impacts of recurving west pacific tropical cyclones on extratropical predictability in the northern hemisphere. 13th cyclone workshop pacific grove ca. cool-season regime transition and its impact on precipitation in the northeastern united states. 31st annual nesc saratoga springs ny.   6