travis a. jackson curriculum vitae address department of music university of chicago  e. th street chicago il  () - travieso@uchicago.edu education     columbia university new york ny doctor of philosophy in music (ethnomusicology) dissertation: “performance and musical meaning: analyzing ‘jazz on the new york scene.” master of philosophy in music (ethnomusicology) master of arts in music (ethnomusicology) masters thesis: “become like one: communication interaction and the development of group sound in jazz performance.” university of pennsylvania philadelphia pa bachelor of arts in african-american studies honors thesis: “the extended works of edward kennedy ‘duke ellington -: new vistas in african-american music.” graduated with distinction in major. employment - university of chicago department of music chicago il associate professor of music and the humanities. university of chicago department of music chicago il  (spring) visiting assistant professor of music. - university of michigan school of music ann arbor mi assistant professor of musicology (ethnomusicology). jackson curriculum vitae honors and awards  honorable mention alan p. merriam prize for outstanding english-language monograph society for ethnomusicology for blowin the blues away: performance and meaning on the new york scene (berkeley: university of california press ). - ford foundation postdoctoral fellowship.  spring/summer research grant horace w. rackham school of graduate studies/ oﬃce of the vice-president for research university of michigan ann arbor. - ford foundation predoctoral fellowship columbia university new york ny. - presidents fellowship columbia university new york ny.  hewitt panteleoni prize for best student paper at the meeting of the middle atlantic chapter of the society for ethnomusicology washington dc - april. - george edmund haynes fellowship columbia university new york ny. scholarly publications in process post-punk sound and vision: empire pastiche primitivism (book manuscript). in process “metaphors in a mixmaster: sun city girls rocks permanent avant-garde and an unchanging same” (essay). in process “the black eclectic” (essay). in process “whats going on: authorship accidents and the concept album” (essay). forthcoming “new bottle old wine: whither jazz studies?” in issues in african american music edited by mellonee v. burnim and portia k. maultsby (new york: routledge). “culture commodity palimpsest: locating jazz in the world.” in jazz worlds/ world jazz edited by philip v. bohlman and goﬀredo plastino (chicago: university of chicago press): -.  page 2 jackson curriculum vitae scholarly publications cont.  “tourist point of view? musics of the world and ellingtons suites.” musical quarterly  (-): -. “disseminating world music.” in the cambridge history of world music edited by philip v. bohlman (cambridge: cambridge university press): -. “jazz” (with mark tucker). the grove dictionary of american music nd ed. edited by charles hiroshi garrett. “falling into fancy fragments: punk protest and politics.” in the routledge history of social protest in popular music edited by jonathan c. friedman (new york: routledge): -. blowin the blues away: performance and meaning on the new york jazz scene. berkeley: university of california press. “rearticulating ethnomusicology: privilege ambivalence and twelve years in sem.” ethnomusicology (): -. “interpreting jazz.” in african american music: an introduction edited by mellonee v. burnim and portia k. maultsby (new york: routledge): -. “ ‘always new and centuries old: jazz poetry and tradition as creative adaptation.” in uptown conversation: the new jazz studies edited by robert g. omeally brent hayes edwards and farah jasmine griﬃn (new york: columbia university press): -. “jazz” “blues” and  short related articles. in the new harvard dictionary of music nd ed. edited by don michael randel (cambridge: harvard university press). “jazz as musical practice.” in the cambridge companion to jazz edited by david horn and mervyn cooke (cambridge: cambridge university press): -. “jazz” (bibliography). in the new grove dictionary of music and musicians edited by stanley sadie (london: macmillan).           page 3 jackson curriculum vitae scholarly publications cont.  “spooning good singing gum: meaning association and interpretation in rock music.” current musicology : -.   reviews      “jazz performance as ritual: the blues aesthetic and the african diaspora.” in the african diaspora: a musical perspective edited by ingrid monson (new york: garland) -. in the encyclopedia of african-american culture and history (new york: macmillan): “art ensemble of chicago.” “barron bill.” “foster frank.” “jordan louis.” “nanton joseph (tricky sam).” “threadgill henry [luther].” “tizol juan.” “world saxophone quartet.” “eccentric gifted and black: thelonious monk revealed” review of thelonious monk: the life and times of an american original by robin d. g. kelley. du bois review (): -. “miles davis concerts and interviews in the vault” wolfgangs vault. jazz perspectives (): -. when the levees broke: a requiem in four acts dir. spike lee ( dvds). jazz perspectives (): -. every tone a testimony: an african american aural history (audio recording). yearbook for traditional music : . bebop: a social and musical history by scott deveaux (berkeley: university of california press ). journal of the american musicological society (): - .  black appalachia (audio recording). yearbook for traditional music : -. page 4 jackson curriculum vitae reviews cont.  black texicans (audio recording). yearbook for traditional music : .    voices of the civil rights movement and give your hands to struggle (audio recordings). yearbook for traditional music :-. thinking in jazz: the inﬁnite art of improvisation by paul berliner (chicago: university of chicago press ). oral history review (): -. bebop: the music and the players by thomas owens (new york: oxford university press ). american music (): -. other publications  “play it (over and over again).” review of coltrane: the story of a sound by ben ratliﬀ. the nation  november -.        liner notes for erik santos kuu: journey to the jar. compact disc centaur . “city learning: balancing work and play with an urban music education.” down beat (october): . “experiencing the mystery: an interview with fred anderson and hamid drake.” roctober  (winter): -. review of gema y pavel cosa de broma (compact disc intuition/nubenegra ). rhythmmusic (december): . “of roots beats and belief.” rhythmmusic (september): -. review of dlg dark latin groove (compact disc sir george records/sony tropical). rhythmmusic (august): . liner notes for wycliﬀe gordon and ron westray bone structure. compact disc atlantic .  “a jazzography.” new york times magazine  june: -. page 5 jackson curriculum vitae invited presentations  “jazz jazz studies ethnomusicology: moribundity and other changing sames.” lecture department of ethnomusicology university of california los angeles  april. “all the things you arent: freedom collaboration and utopia in the discourse of improvisation.” colloquium in conjunction with improvisation in the arts and everyday life: a weekend of performances dialogues and seminars bowling green state university bowling green oh  april. “ethnographic questions: confronting music in cities confronting the present and the past.” ethnomusicology history and critical theory forum kings college london england  march. “feels like we only go backwards: sound scholarship and the futures of jazz and popular music.” lecture tied to world of sound iii international festival of contemporary arts smolьny college st. petersburg state university st. petersburg russia  september. “practices gear and aﬀordances: hearing and the minds ear in post-punk britain.” society of fellows in the liberal arts university of chicago chicago il  february. “time-space expansion: confronting the post-punk past as an ethnographer.” ethnoise workshop university of chicago chicago il  october. “chicago jazz: the contemporary scene.” presentation on the panel “rhapsody: the music of black chicago” at black arts chicago: moves and movements northwestern university evanston il  may. “this is not a love song: sound image and the eighties in rock history.” “the eighties in theory and practice” a unit for criticism and interpretive theory conference university of illinois urbana-champaign  may. “how not to read a pop song.” media aesthetics distinguished faculty lecture university of chicago chicago il  april. “debunking the jazz as democracy myth.” karla scherer center for the study of american culture university of chicago chicago il  april.          page 6 jackson curriculum vitae invited presentations cont.  “beyond playing the changes: jazz strategies technologies and experiments around and after .” after : realignments in politics and culture -  andrew w. mellon foundation sawyer seminar at the franke institute for the humanities university of chicago chicago il  april (read by kaley r. mason). “birth ||: death rebirth :|| death? metaphors markets and the future(s) of jazz.” music department guest lecture series yale university new haven ct  february. “hearing around corners: sound subjectivity and agency in ralph ellisons writing.” midwest faculty seminar franke institute for the humanities university of chicago  january. “capturing the jazz moment.” presentation for techknowledge the nd chicago humanities festival uic forum chicago il  november. “sound studies aﬀordances and ‘post-positivist empiricism. ” response to the panel “sounds of response in the age of communicative capitalism” meeting of the american studies association baltimore md  october. with charles newell of the court theatre: “porgy and bess: the history of an american symbol” dusable museum chicago il  may. “post-punk sound and vision.” izaak wirzup lecture university of chicago  may. “going home: hearing empire in and through sonic engagements.” paper presented at the symposium music race empire franke institute for the humanities university of chicago  april. “ ‘you cant steal a gift or music as property: cultural intellectual and otherwise.” midwest faculty seminar franke institute for the humanities university of chicago  april. “disciplinary cringe and disciplinary legitimacy or the ethnomusicologists new clothes.” butler school of music university of texas at austin  april.          page 7 jackson curriculum vitae invited presentations cont.  “ritual frames and spirituality: understanding jazz musicians in performance.” harper lecture for the university of chicago alumni club of dallas-fort worth  april. “the mixed legacy of porgy and bess.” pre-performance lectures for porgy and bess lyric opera of chicago chicago il  november- december. “the black eclectic … revisited.” presented in conjunction with the exhibit “black is black aint” renaissance society chicago il  may. respondent for “hip-hop a lo cubano: the past present and future of a movement.” panel at cultura contra el bloque: the power politics and cultural production of cuban hip-hop in a globalized world university of illinois urbana-champaign  april. “i found that essence rare: hearing and seeing post-punk.” colloquium school of music university of wisconsin madison  april. “at home hes a tourist: the relevance and challenges of ethnography in the st century.” willson center for humanities and arts distinguished lecture university of georgia athens  march. panelist. “the poetics of hip-hop in the st century: a community dialogue.” depaul university chicago il  march. “the blues are what you make of them (and that might be a problem).” public lecture for media aesthetics university of chicago chicago il  january. “scenes in the city: space leisure and the changing fortunes of jazz.”  roberts lecture grinnell college grinnell ia  april. “moving beyond reﬂection: thoughts on (african american) music and agency.” presentation at the symposium interrogating ideas of citizenship ethnicity identity and race gettysburg college gettysburg pa - march. “whats going on: authorship accidents and the concept album.” colloquium cornell university ithaca ny  october.           page 8 jackson curriculum vitae invited presentations cont.  “out of this world: jazz improvisation optimal experience and stylistic change.” presentation at new directions in the study of musical improvsation: an interdisciplinary and intercultural conference university of illinois urbana- champaign - april. “ ‘all the things you are: the changing face(s) of jazz studies.” keynote address at jazz changes university of kansas lawrence ks  march. “multiple reﬂections: blues people as blessing and curse.” paper presented at blues people:  years later sarah lawrence college bronxville ny - february. “armstrong as myth and icon.” lecture rd annual satchmo summerfest new orleans la  august. “the black eclectic.” colloquium music department university of california berkeley  march. “race culture and tradition: jazz as cultural property.” colloquium music department university of virginia charlottesville va  february. “in search of the lost riddim: an afro-diasporic view of jazz history.” multiple caribbeans: performance displacement identities an international conference sponsored by the latin american caribbean and iberian studies program university of wisconsin madison - april. “diasporic interactions: the interconnections between jazz and afro-caribbean musics.” joint meeting of the society for american music and the center for black music research port of spain trinidad - may. “oscar petersons inﬂuence on modern jazz piano playing.” society for american music tribute to oscar peterson toronto canada  november. “scenes and aesthetics: writing the history of now.” presentation in jazz seminar prof. chris washburne columbia university new york ny  september.          page 9 jackson curriculum vitae invited presentations cont.  “from the woodshed to melodic minors: the impact of jazz education on musical development.” newport jazz festival symposium salve regina university newport ri - august. “in the tradition: race culture history and memory in s jazz.” colloquium music department university of chicago chicago il  may. “ ‘what is this tradition basied on?: baraka murray mccall and jazz/poetry collaboration.” rhythm-a-ning: a symposium on jazz columbia university new york ny - may. “ellington abroad: the politics and musicality of black worldliness.” joint lecture with penny von eschen (department of history university of michigan). center for jazz studies columbia university new york ny  november. “tourist point of view: ellingtons musical souvenirs.” duke ellington society new york chapter th anniversary celebration new york ny  november. “tourist point of view: ellingtons musical souvenirs.” duke ellington: the first  years symposium at jazz em agosto sponsored by the calouste gulbenkian foundation lisbon portugal - july. “flavor flow and repetition: the aesthetics of hip-hop.” center for black music research columbia college chicago il  april. “ready to receive: an ethnographic view of jazz and spirituality.” washington university music department fall lecture series (co-sponsored by african american studies) st. louis mo  december. “spooning good singing gum: notes on the meanings of rock.” melos colloquium institute for the humanities university of michigan ann arbor  november. “wynton marsalis: the fiddlers tale.” pre-concert lecture for the university musical society university of michigan ann arbor  april. “the blues aesthetic jazz and spirituality.” presentation to the jazz study group columbia university new york ny  march.           page 10 jackson curriculum vitae invited presentations cont.  panelist “mellon minority undergraduate research program alumni.” mellon fellowship coordinators meeting andrew w. mellon foundation new york ny  april.      “black music in the harlem renaissance.” presentation to links sponsored by the university musical society in conjunction with the harlem nutcracker borders books and music ann arbor mi  december. “in the studio and in the digital realm: enlarging the concept of the composer in african american music.” presentation at symposium on the composer in african american musical traditions university of michigan ann arbor mi  september. “ ‘theres no separation: pathways practices and the african americanness of jazz.” colloquium music department columbia university new york ny  march. “ ‘bringing something to the music: levels of interaction in jazz performance.” colloquium school of music university of michigan ann arbor  march. “diﬀerent ways of saying something: searching for meaning in jazz performance.” presentation at the columbia university music department centennial celebration new york ny  october. other presentations  “ breadth depth respect and zero-sum thinking.” paper presented on the ams graduate education committee panel “what must a musicologist know? form and content of the musicology ph.d. curriculum” at the annual meeting of the american musicological society louisville ky  november. “ ‘the highest british attention to … detail: post-punk sound and vision and the meaning of englishness.” paper presented on the panel “popular music” at the th congress of the international musicological society rome italy - july. panel discussion participant. “liner notes” at gil scott-heron: passages interludes subtext understanding. experimental station chicago il  june.   page 11 jackson curriculum vitae other presentations cont.  “african american music and musicians in paris.” presentation for woodlawn charter school students university of chicago  april. “post-punk sound and vision: empire pastiche and primitivism.” paper presented on the panel “kill them with love: punk and performance race and gender” at the meeting of the american studies association albuquerque nm - october. “ ‘honking on one note: the texas tenor sound and its challenge to jazz discourse.” joint meeting of the society for american music and the association for recorded sound collections cleveland oh - march. “blending jazz and afro-caribbean musics.” presentation with lawrence mcclellan (berklee school of music boston massachusetts) national association of music educators biennial nashville tn - april. “in the tradition: race culture history and memory in s jazz.” paper presented at the meeting of the society for ethnomusicology toronto canada -  november. “big city to small town student to faculty dissertation to book: the experiences and transitions of a recent ph.d.” ssrc-mellon summer conference brown university providence ri - july. “the ‘blues aesthetic and the jazz performance ritual: jazz as equipment for living.” paper presented at the meeting of the society for ethnomusicology pittsburgh pa - october. “ ‘what are you gonna do with that?: jazz fieldwork and the ethics of knowing.” paper presented at the ssrc-mellon summer conference hampton university hampton va - june. “the history of and issues relating to women in jazz performance.” presentation to the jazz study group columbia university institute for research in african- american studies new york ny  february.         page 12 jackson curriculum vitae other presentations cont.  “ ‘takin it to another level: creating flow in jazz performance.” paper presented at the meeting of the society for ethnomusicology los angeles ca - october.     “veterans and young lions: the role of age in the formation and development of small jazz groups.” paper presented at the seventh international meeting of the international association for the study of popular music university of the paciﬁc stockton ca - july. “wheres your girl?: african american women and the ritual of jazz performance.” paper presented at feminist theory and music ii: a continuing discussion eastman school of music university of rochester rochester ny -  june. “transmission and regeneration: generational interaction in jazz performance.” paper presented at the meeting of the middle atlantic chapter of the society for ethnomusicology washington dc - april. “communication interaction and the group concept: a study of performed jazz.” paper presented at the united states meeting of the international association for the study of popular music university of north texas denton - october. public interviews  billy childs. pre-concert interview. reva and david logan center for the arts university of chicago chicago il.  november. stefon harris. pre-concert chat (sfjazz ensemble) mandel hall university of chicago chicago il.  october. daniel bernard roumain (as part of the artspeaks series). mandel hall university of chicago chicago il.  february. uri caine (as part of the artspeaks series). mandel hall university of chicago chicago il.  january. chris potter (as part of the artstalk series). franke institute for the humanities university of chicago chicago il.  february.     page 13 jackson curriculum vitae public interviews cont.  patricia barber. gleacher center university of chicago chicago il.  march.  jodie christian ari brown and harrison bankhead. hot house chicago il.  june. professional activities and service - - - boards member editorial board. american popular music university of massachusetts press series. rachel rubin and jeﬀrey melnick series editors. member editorial board. international jazz archives journal. member editorial board. tracking pop university of michigan press rock and pop series. lori burns jon covach and albin zak series editors. - member editorial board. journal of the society for american music. - member editorial board. journal of the american musicological society. - member executive board. afro-latin@ institute of chicago chicago il. - - - member editorial board radical musicology (journal). member editorial board jazz perspectives (journal). member editorial board. jazz perspectives university of michigan press jazz series. john f. szwed and eric c. porter series editors. - university of chicago fellowships and awards committee center for the study of race politics and culture. - director of entrance and placement (admissions) music department. - curriculum committee music department. - practicum committee music department. page 14 jackson curriculum vitae professional activities and service cont.  (autumn) practicum coordinator search committee music department. university of chicago cont. - executive director for university of chicago presents search committee. - chair postdoctoral lecturer in ethnomusicology search committee music department. - music theory lecturer search committee music department. - entrance and placement (admissions) committee music department. - provosts career enhancement postdoctoral scholarship selection committee. - community engagement committee center for the study of race politics and culture.  (autumn) practicum committee music department. - member. college disciplinary committee. - provosts career enhancement postdoctoral scholarship selection committee. -  court theatre faculty advisory council. center for the study of race politics and culture director search committee. - executive committee member center for the study of race politics and culture. - member. all university disciplinary committee. - senior fellow. society of fellows in the liberal arts. - member committee of the council of the university senate. - council of the university senate. - director of entrance and placement (admissions) music department. page 15 jackson curriculum vitae professional activities and service cont. - university of chicago cont. member faculty advisory board karla scherer center for the study of american culture. - member council on advanced studies. - member college council. - - faculty coordinator mellon mays undergraduate fellowship program. member civic knowledge project faculty advisory committee. - director of graduate studies department of music.  (fall) acting director of graduate studies department of music. - member arts planning council. - director of graduate student development department of music. - chair graduate teaching committee department of music. - -  society for ethnomusicology first vice-president. liaison to the american musicological society. member alan merriam prize committee (awarded to one distinguished english- language monograph per year). - member program committee nd annual meeting of the society for ethnomusicology columbus oh - october. - chair society for ethnomusicology council. - member society for ethnomusicology council. page 16 jackson curriculum vitae professional activities and service cont. - society for ethnomusicology cont. participant research and pedagogy team evia (ethnomusicological video for instruction and analysis) digital archive. university of michigan and indiana university. lester p. monts and ruth stone project coordinators. -  - member program committee th annual meeting of the society for ethnomusicology estes park co - october. events coordinator local arrangements committee th annual meeting of the society for ethnomusicology detroit mi - october. review panels screener mellon/american council of learned societies dissertation completion fellowship competition. - ford foundation fellowships national research council irvine ca.  ford foundation fellowships national research council washington dc. screener  international dissertation field research grant competitions (social science research council). panelist neh fellowships and summer stipends panel e: music washington dc  july. screener  international dissertation field research grant competition (social science research council). panelist neh fellowships and summer stipends panel e: music and dance washington dc  july. panelist neh fellowships and summer stipends panel f: music and dance washington dc  july. sessions chaired “songs travel: recordings and repertory” th annual meeting of the society for ethnomusicology indianapolis in - november. -  -    page 17 jackson curriculum vitae professional activities and service cont.  sessions chaired cont. “addressing issues through analysis”th annual meeting of the society for ethnomusicology new orleans la - november. “imperial sounds of the contemporary.” music race empire conference. university of wisconsin madison. - april. “musical ontologies ()”nd annual meeting of the society for ethnomusicology columbus oh - october. “african legacy in latin/o america: race nation and heritage in text”th international congress of the latin american studies association montréal canada - september. “center symbol site: reexamining downtown” th annual meeting of the american anthropological association washington dc  november-  december. “jazz religion and culture theory.” th annual meeting of the society for ethnomusicology detroit mi - october. “american contemporaries.” joint meeting of the society for american music and the center for black music research port of spain trinidad - may. “black & white/folk & commercial: music and cultural politics.” joint session of the international association for the study of popular music and the society for american music toronto canada  november. “ethnic musics and the politics of memory.” american studies association annual meeting detroit mi  october. “music theatre and the performing arts.” annual conference of ford fellows irvine ca  october. “popular music.” meeting of the sonneck society for american music kansas city mo  february.           page 18 jackson curriculum vitae professional activities and service cont. - - university of michigan advisor to undergraduate musicology majors college of literature science and the arts. member executive committee program in american culture college of literature science and the arts. - member faculty senate.   member ad-hoc committee on the african american music collection. lester p. monts chair. member search committee one-year leave replacement department of musicology school of music. - alternate faculty senate. - faculty associate program in american culture college of literature science and the arts. - member graduate admissions committee. department of musicology school of music.  member search committee. one-year leave replacement musicology department. school of music.  member search committee. archivist for the african american music collection. - advisor to music concentrators. college of literature science and the arts. other popular music section article prize committee society for ethnomusicology. irving lowens memorial article prize committee society for american music.   page 19 jackson curriculum vitae professional activities and service cont. - other cont. member jazz study group (an interdisciplinary african american studies faculty seminar funded by the ford foundation). robert g. omeally columbia university director. memberships american musicological society american studies association society for ethnomusicology courses taught jazz rock ethnographic methods music anthropology american musics introduction to world music ethnomusicology proseminar post-punk (seminar) hearing (seminar) music documentaries (seminar) music and poetry (seminar co-taught with robert von hallberg) eclecticism (seminar) the concept album (seminar) jazz historiography (seminar) scenes and spatiality (seminar) race place and music in the urban present (seminar) recording credits  co-producer. erik santos kuu: journey to the jar (compact disc). centaur .  guitarist (on “one another”). albin zak an average day (compact disc). insatiable . page 20