megan lawrence strategy department | harvard business school wyss house | soldiers field road | boston ma 02163 mblawrence@hbs.edu | http://scholar.harvard.edu/mlawrence |404.275.5400 education harvard business school boston ma doctor of business administration strategy committee: felix oberholzer-gee (chair) jan rivkin juan alcacer victor bennett princeton university princeton nj bachelor of science in engineering degree cum laude in operations research and financial engineering senior thesis: “discipling the world from home: a relative efficiency analysis of international student ministry in united states universities” articles under review bennett victor megan lawrence & raffaella sadun. (2015). “are founder ceos good managers?” in measuring entrepreneurial businesses: current knowledge and challenges edited by john haltiwanger. national bureau of economic research forthcoming in 2015. (expected) may 2016 may 2006 abstract: we investigate the management practices adopted by firms where the founders are also the ceos using data from the world management survey. we find that founder ceo firms have the lowest management scores of any owner-manager pair type and that this difference is associated with significant performance differentials. we propose three possible reasons for the managerial gap of founder ceo firms: a) informational problems preventing a clear understanding of the weakness of their firms managerial practices; b) institutional factors dampening the incentive to adopt managerial practices; and c) non-pecuniary returns to potentially inefficient but power-preserving practices. the findings presented in the paper provide support for a) and c) while we do not find evidence that the management practices of founder ceo firms vary with respect to the characteristics of the institutional environments in which they are embedded. working papers lawrence megan. (2015). “taking stock of the ability to change: prior experience competency traps and learning-by-doing”. (job market paper) winner of strategic management society (sms) best conference phd paper prize. 2015. abstract: in aiming to understand why firms differ in their ability to adapt to new contexts i explore the extent to which prior experience with a previous practice impacts the ability to properly execute a new organizational practice. i generate predictions by integrating the traditional organizational learning and path dependency literatures. to test my hypotheses i use internal data from 294 stores of a large retail chain that implemented a new restocking process in its stores. initial findings show that on average stores dramatically improve execution performance over time and worker experience with the prior practice matters a great deal. stores where employees have greater exposure either directly or indirectly to the old organizational practice perform significantly worse than other stores at the outset - consistent with the notion of ‘competency traps. however these stores also learn more quickly which i show may be a result of increased efficiency in their communications when learning the new process. these findings suggest that scholars in organizational learning should take attributes of an organizations experience history into account when assessing variations in new practice performance and learning. lawrence megan felix oberholzer-gee & victor canalog. (2015). “bidding for business: tax discrimination as local industrial policy”. abstract: local and state governments routinely compete for economic activity by offering firms tax breaks and subsidies. while we have empirical evidence to show that large industrial plants produce significant local benefits we know little about the type of firm that local governments most seek to attract. to further our understanding of local tax discrimination we conduct a randomized field experiment across 312 communities in the united states. we observe how each of the governments in our sample adjusts its property tax in response to variation in firm characteristics and local economic conditions. we find that our towns pursue a systematic local industrial policy whose goal is to attract manufacturing jobs and work for unskilled labor. surprisingly we find no evidence that towns seek to generate rents targeted at the current local population. local tax policy also appears to disregard agglomeration effects and concerns over industrial diversification. research in progress lawrence megan. “who learns from whom: hierarchy and local learning”. bennett victor & megan lawrence. “measuring managerial practices”. lawrence megan. “is early adopter a type? examining adoption patterns among investment advisors”. teaching analytics course for mbas harvard business school finance teaching assistant for weeklong preparatory course for entering mba students fall 2012-spring 2013 economics 10: principles of economics harvard university teaching fellow for foundational macro- and micro-economics course responsible for preparing and teaching summer 2012/13/14 materials for three lectures per week for entire school-year ~ 26 students fall 2011 entrepreneurship and innovation harvard university teaching fellow for prof. mihir desai and prof. joseph lassiter responsible for assisting with material comprehension and grading for 93 students invited presentations doctoral consortia academy of management bps division dissertation consortium atlanta competitive advantage conference (acac) research development workshop academy of management bps division doctoral consortium mack institute emerging scholars workshop wharton strategic management society doctoral consortium paper conferences re-learning to restock: the impact of prior experience on learning-by-doing strategic management conference denver co academy of management annual conference vancouver canada 26th annual production and operations management conference washington dc consortium on competitiveness and cooperation (ccc) new york ny updated oct. 2015 august 2015 may 2015 august 2014 june 2014 september 2013 october 2015 august 2015 may 2015 april 2015 lawrence - 2 nber law and economics winter conference cambridge ma trans-atlantic doctoral conference london business school london uk hbs strategy doctoral workshop boston ma bidding for business: tax discrimination as local industrial policy are founder ceos good managers? executive experience winter 2014 / 2015 managing health care delivery harvard business school on-call teaching assistant for finance and accounting portions of executive training that occurred during interim module of the program between the concentrated modules on healthcare process and practice management february 2015 may 2014 april 2014 nber/criw conference on entrepreneurship washington dc december 2014 leading change and organizational renewal harvard business school march 2012 / 2013 june 2012 facilitator for course designed to teach executives tools for leading their organizations through innovation change and renewal opportunities professional leadership and service invited presentations a view of academic strategy research hbs primo program. invited speaker. doctoral research at hbs hbs mba section j lunch ‘n learn. invited speaker. industry vs academia national collegiate research conference. invited panelist. aspire academy (selective program for romanian business students) romania. invited faculty. what is strategy harvard graduate consulting club. invited speaker. the future of analytics in electronic trading bloomberg lp. invited panelist. reviewing activities atlanta competitive advantage conference research development workshop trans-atlantic doctoral conference discussant. ad hoc reviewer for academy of management review annual meeting membership in professional associations academy of management strategic management society professional experience arcelik a.s. istanbul turkey consultant harvard business school immersion experience program worked with a team of harvard business school mbas on a market entry strategy. july 2015 april 2015 january 2014 july 2012 august 2011 may 2010 may 2015 may 2014 fall 2010-january 2011 performed macro industry and competitive analyses of the white goods markets in europe asia and africa created and presented a proposal to senior management for a targeted market entry strategy. crafted marketing campaign and specified product suite for first and second phase of expansion merrill lynch new york ny electronic trading analyst / associate headed quantitative consulting for equity electronic trading with direct oversight of two employees 2006-2010 updated oct. 2015 lawrence - 3 created and presented client-specific studies to define and improve trading behaviors for top-tier equity clients. studies ranged from defining performance metrics for various strategies to capturing market irregularities that may impact trading to calculating theoretical savings of one strategy versus another designed researched and created studies on current topics of interest in the electronic trading marketplace. responsible for presenting studies to clients and facilitating insightful discussion in meetings to use as feedback for follow-ups and future studies. last study completed before departure was related to high frequency trading also held salestrading responsibilities - primary coverage for 22 clients ranging from start-up statistical arbitrage shops to hedge funds to multi-billion dollar mutual funds; included educating them on mls electronic product offerings and developing a deeper relationship for continuing sales provided transaction cost analyses on a daily / weekly / monthly / quarterly basis to clients created automatic querying tools for desk use that optimized search methods for tracking performance and trades. tools had objectives as follows: analyze client trades for accuracy / effectiveness versus historical and real-time data compare recent activity with previous time periods & report across different sub-sections of data captured by the trading desk references felix oberholzer-gee (committee chair) andreas andresen professor of business administration senior associate dean chair mba program harvard business school morgan hall t37 boston ma 02163 617.495.6770 foberholzer@hbs.edu jan rivkin bruce v. rauner professor of business administration senior associate dean for research harvard business school morgan hall 239 boston ma 02163 617.495.6690 jrivkin@hbs.edu juan alcacer professor of business administration harvard business school morgan hall 227 boston ma 02163 617.495.6338 jalcacer@hbs.edu victor bennett assistant professor of strategy duke university fuqua school of business 100 fuqua drive box 90120 durham nc 27708 919.660.7998 vmb10@duke.edu updated oct. 2015 lawrence - 4