curriculum vitae john david parkinson obe m.st. (cantab) comp. i.m.s.   personal information john david parkinson full name: telephone (m): 0044 (0)7802 305466 e-mail: john@jdparkinsonconsultancy.co.uk summary occupational field: police counter terrorism organised and major crime investigation recent work experience: chief constable (ret.) - west yorkshire police uk senior national coordinator counter terrorism head of counter terrorism unit - role incorporated head of profession for special branch head of profession for counter terrorism senior investigating officers and regional counter terrorism coordinator for the acpo no 2 (north east) region.) main activities and responsibilities: served with west yorkshire police for over 33 years becoming chief constable in 2012. career centred on criminal investigation with specialisms in homicide kidnap and extortion and organised crime enquiries. in 2004 became accredited as an association of chief police officers counter terrorism senior investigating officer working with the metropolitan police and intelligence partners leading the investigation in leeds into the 7/7 london bombings. led the development to increase police counter terrorism capability and capacity and established the first north east counter terrorism unit. has been the gold commander on many counter terrorism operations and led many national ct exercises training and developing senior uk police officers. performed the role of senior national coordinator counter terrorism at scotland yard before becoming deputy chief and subsequently chief constable of the 4th largest police force in the uk. was a vice president of the association of chief police officers terrorism and allied matters committee. career history after a long career in criminal investigation became heavily involved in the national counter terrorism project review of capability and capacity of uk policing and headed one of the three counter terrorism units in the uk. leading on many areas of development operational practises and threat mitigation. a graduate of the international leadership in counter terrorism program (linct) becoming president of the alumni association in 2008 and has worked closely with colleagues in the federal bureau of investigation (fbi) australian federal police (afp) the royal canadian mounted police (rcmp) and other organisations across the world working in the counter terrorism field. 1   curriculum vitae john david parkinson obe m.st. (cantab) comp. i.m.s.   was a consultant editor of the first and subsequently widely acclaimed and published 2009 blackstones counter terrorism handbook and a contributor to the 2012 published routledge companion to uk counter terrorism. a companion of the institute of management specialists (comp. i.m.s.) and graduated from the association of chief police officers strategic command course in 2008. was firstly appointed to the role of assistant chief constable before going onto become deputy and then chief constable of west yorkshire police. was awarded the obe for services to policing and counter terrorism in 2011. retired from policing one of uks largest police forces in 2013 and now runs a successful consultancy business delivering solutions on a wide range of contemporary counter terrorism policing security and intelligence issues recently presenting at the us homeland security / leadership in counter terrorism conference 2013. highly computer literate and competent in a variety of software applications. education holds a masters degree (with distinction) from cambridge university in applied criminology and police management and is a companion of the institute of management specialists. a graduate of the international leadership in counter terrorism programme (linct) and holds a nebosh certificate with distinction. also a visiting senior research fellow at centric (centre of excellence for terrorism resilience intelligence & organised crime research) based at sheffield hallam university and is chair of the centric advisory board. training and accreditation is developed vetted (dv) and holds accreditation in the following association of chief police officers professional disciplines: acpo counter terrorism commander - 2011 acpo advanced public order commander - 2009 acpo gold strategic firearms commander - 2008 acpo strategic command course - 2008 acpo management of linked series and serious crime - 2005 acpo counter terrorism senior investigating officer - 2004 acpo management of disaster and civil emergency - 2001 acpo national kidnap & extortion course - 2001 national senior investigating officers course (4 modules) british military command course: counter revolutionary warfare and counter insurgency module - 1996 2  